I remembered my twitch config
[Music]
in my life
yeah wait what bagels are still going
but everything else is done
the slow toaster
wait what's going on
yeah it's a great curve episode
Larry's mom yeah is that a new one oh no
yes I mean like even on the on the
tombstone he's like
why isn't this one
there we go yeah
okay we're gonna start fresh I'm gonna
[__]
foreign
[Music]
oh thanks dude this looks amazing pretty
good
I gotta get some hot sauce too you want
orange juice uh no I don't want orange
juice you want coffee uh no I got the
cell
you want coffee
do you have ice
we could do coffee yeah iced coffee yeah
no no you make coffee
yeah it's gonna take like will it even
be in time for that
what do you mean
like
like we could have happened after
breakfast I guess
oh oh I see what you're saying yeah
right okay no yeah it's fine
let me get some Forks yeah
yeah
uh
yeah butter
and twice in the freezer
yeah okay so it doesn't seem like the
overpass API Sports pagination so we
might need to Upstream effects uh that
allows us to make queries that are big
uh but paginated because obviously you
don't want to send like uh like
hundreds of Megs over the wire in a
single get like you want you like you
have to paginate that's how everyone
else does it yeah
or well rather you're making like a curl
soon but but even still you're scraping
for Cohen right well I am yeah but I
mean I'm just saying because you you're
right that it is sort of a solo thing
um but as stuff comes up I do want to
like bounce ideas off of you like how
because we we want to Upstream Like My
Philosophy is that we do you want to
Upstream as much as possible because
then you don't have to worry about
maintenance but also then other people
can use your work like from reading the
wiki it does not it was not clear how
one would uh make big queries like this
like people like this guy recommended
uh so I said
uh I saw that but I would always time in
response to overpass turbo I would
always time out when I tried to search
for everything with toilets I saw
somewhere that uh that there wasn't a
good way to paginate results what is the
recommended way to access large queries
like this 300 000 nodes approximately in
that case you could either try to make
the geographical area smaller I.E limit
to a city or state uh or for project I'm
using I'm using a two by two degrees
query which means two degrees latitude
and two degrees longitude so he
basically is tiling uh bounding boxes so
he basically creates a uh I mean that's
a form of hydration sometimes exactly so
what we could so yeah so I said okay
yeah I may generate a bunch of queries
most likely based on different areas so
we could just do that but I think
we could just do that that's actually
now that I've talked it out that's what
I want to do great
yeah it feels pretty reasonable but I I
do think that it's not clear on the wiki
like what is the recommended workflow
there you know what I mean hmm no oh
yeah sure
but
is there a Wiki about using this data
set for what
analysis purposes yeah
the thing is
it does seem like it's usually limited
to less like queries that are smaller
like within a city like hundreds of
virtual it's not 300 000. or and then
the other side of that coin is just
download planet.osm which is 1.7
terabytes right which is huge it's huge
I mean that's bigger than my hard drive
on my computer yeah exactly
I do think that some Ram is not
terabytes now I do think it would be
cool
as a technical challenge
to see if we could host it on AWS for a
while just to play around with it
because I've never worked with a data
set that big ever
yeah
can we querying that would be just a
tremendously
right yeah where is planet.osm like
where's that hosted do you know I'll
show you
so this is the planet of the Wiki page
new version we release every week it's a
big file
so just the uncompressed so this is
uncompressed 1.7 terabytes wow
um and then this is how you download it
they have official torrents
oh wow it's just a repo dude
operate they just call it operations
they're cool
what do you want to see you can yeah
um we can go back to the downloading
see downloading data
I mean 1.7 terabyte is not a ton
[Music]
it's not like it it's like
they're like
yeah your personal computers obviously
right
it's like getting to the scale just
beyond where everyone can work locally
yeah yeah
and the thing that I would actually be
curious to study as well is like we
could take
like I think planet.osm oh a planet.osm
this is a snapshot of current data
but you have planet history too so you
there's an API for getting the history
of all edits too I mean the entire
change changes which has got to be even
bigger but it would be cool to get all
of the the history of all the nodes for
bathrooms to see how how that yeah
because then you could study how is this
being crowdsourced and oh also dude um
um
I just wanna
okay so there's almost
it was at 900 million oh yeah it's 10
million it's almost 10 million users
which is awesome it was great yeah okay
look at there's about eight billion
nodes
wow
dude look at this one guy oh actually
these These are both like Bots I think
uh but like just just insane and then um
I think this has been I don't know if
this has to plot the graphs
um
where was all those cool graphs that I
oh yeah here
and they have all this stuff about like
look at this like oh man you're trying
up
I mean this is an amazing looking grab
what's the logarithmic one it's this
yeah what is that thing
oh yeah oh logarithms yeah
no just going up like crazy wow
it's so cool how they post that you know
who runs this
um it's like someone in Germany right or
it's a it's an organization I think uh
um right right what do you look up you
look up
uh oh I'll just look at those time
um
um um
leadership yeah leadership committee or
something
steering yeah governance governance
governance
hmm
um I'll just look at who runs open
streaming
but it's the openstreetmap foundation
it's a non-profit
version England and Wales England well
key people Allen mustard
he's a retired American Agricultural
Economist that's crazy
Allen mustard
really
yeah
this guy
hmm let's see well
it's done some government work looks
like
openstreetmap is the coolest dude I'm so
glad I found that peppine told me about
this
okay let me just close a bunch of
[__] tabs
so actually do you want to work on that
with me that seems fun is generating
bounding boxes that tile the Earth
because the thing is bounding boxes
can't be
cover this because like if you take it
this A boundary box the same size in New
York City as opposed to Wyoming like
obviously the number of bathrooms is
going to be way more in uh
New York
so far
oh also the way to calculate that long
distance is called the havershine
formula which is just converts it to a
sphere and then
and so I found some Julia Packers would
do it but whatever
okay here's the page on downloading data
somebody yeah let me just clean this up
here and then look at this because my
eyesight's not great
really it's I just don't have my glasses
on oh yeah okay you wear contacts or
anything no yeah I'm lucky [__]
I was doing it for the stream right yeah
it was fake she could tell you're like
be real
um
it's incredible how messy the heater I
am same yeah same but it's so funny
whenever I go to a party or something
and you know everyone's played this out
my place or something it's just it's
just like I'm just it's everywhere and
people somehow are able to come back
like compartmentalize they're like able
to like keep it so that it doesn't look
messy I'm like how are you guys doing
this what the hell is that
now the best is Gabe brochure at Julius
as well
can we get that video up can we please
get that video where is that is it
there's a video of it right there is a
video of it for it
oh man
hello
do you have a video of Gabe's spilling
food at your wedding at the reception
have you seen the video you should
absolutely see this it's probably it's
the best yeah yeah
no it's so funny so I mean we're just at
the dinner tables and somehow Gabe's
eating yeah yeah and somehow there's
just food like behind him on the floor
like how did it get there I think he was
into one of your friends too so he's
like flirting right yeah yeah
um
[Laughter]
like it's like he's like a server I
don't know what do you what do you mean
I thought he was on the plate like this
was he oh we gotta find the video uh I
remember dying
the way the plate spilled was just
hysterical
dude his recovery is beautiful too like
he didn't even react oh wait I think we
might be talking about different videos
I'm talking about the reception
I don't remember him dropping anything
in a video really I thought I just
remember a night dinner like someone was
just told me he dropped okay yeah we oh
no at the not the wedding oh I'm
thinking of a video that's at the like
weddings
wait no no it was just a video of him
like you like he like zoomed in on
there's just piles of food around his
chair like somehow got behind it and
stuff is hilarious
foreign
[Music]
I wonder how osm is handling border
disputes
because the history of Border disputes
is super interesting like for instance
Google Maps will render a different
border depending on where you're
accessing it from all right
I'm eating slow stuff sorry it's a way
to eat
it's also the violence
yep
an experimental I'm leaving this out oh
thanks yeah of course welcome I'll just
put it right above the olives yeah this
is yeah and keep the lid like kind of
loose too
yeah
okay we're done here you can you I don't
need this no no keep it all right cool
um
who's supposed to be someone enjoyable
you know okay okay so the full history
file
planet.sm4 is 3.3 terabytes which is
still not that big
uncompressed
wow really that's
the history of openstreetmap it's crazy
that it's one file I've never heard of
that it's so fantastic I mean it's it
changes
yeah but like you're crowdsourcing from
a group of people who are like
thoughtful I mean yeah you just get
beautiful things like hear all this like
things you would expect you know
dude you sure you don't want anything to
drink oh you got the the head
Association I'll drink some water
I've got a water here
I don't have a tea cool
thank you
I feel like we could try to get Julie's
involved in this but it'd have to be
like a later stage because I don't think
he's really about it right now
yeah like I was thinking he could do
like design Yeah well yeah well good
yeah because he said you guys have a
logo yet right right
but sometimes like we're not going that
direction yet like because because we
have this Paris deadline yeah
ah
dude should I get a MacBook Pro like a
new laptop you've been talking about it
um but you've never really gave me the
opinion on it
it's like a big purchase yeah there's a
lot of considerations for me to give you
a comment on that because I don't want
to just like tell you dude yeah yeah if
I made a purchase like that it would be
like a significant financial purchase
like of the year
like it's kind of nice yeah and you're
like gonna take a trip yeah
so let me get the trip out the way and
see where my finances are I mean yeah
the problem is I don't have a mobile
workstation
which
clearly we don't use
right
what the mobile yeah but I feel like
I don't know you have a better mentality
maybe about
I don't know maybe it's because you were
in California over the winter
but like the importance of working
outside yeah no I really adhere to that
importance but I
but I might be like too much like that
where I'm like oh like I can't even like
it's not pleasant to work inside
you know
um which sucks because really like you
get your most productive work done like
either in your office or in your home
office because why because it has the
most because you have the monitors like
in the end the day you cannot like bring
a monitor
okay they they are recommending that you
start with a planet file
they are uh
yeah here wait read these messages okay
so I said
so guys this is the thing about time can
you tell me about element.io I don't
know what it is it's just some chat and
you're able to like find it yeah yeah
okay sure sure yeah I found that before
with like compiler stuff there's like a
Discord for it it's pretty shitty though
okay so this is what I said
for what
it's it's actually different because I
like I sought it out but I was trying to
just go for what for like compile like
alexing oh okay yeah that's really Niche
it's super Niche it was like it was a
server devoted to compilers or Alexa
all right I'm sorry front end compilers
yeah oh that's a pretty big Community
actually yeah so it's like Lexing Lexing
parsing before and then a little bit of
ir but do you want to uh venmo request
me uh for the breakfast yeah oh yeah
okay I'll figure it out okay yeah yeah
okay anyway so so I I uh it honestly was
a lot cheaper than I thought it would be
there's like 24 bucks bro like yeah but
you have clean man come on yeah it's
awesome so uh
so so he said these guys are like we
both have money though it kind of makes
it less it's yeah it makes it a little
less like it's about the project I don't
want to get bogged down by like twenty
dollars yeah sorry yeah no no I'm just
saying like I'm happy to just send it I
feel that because I don't really give a
[__] but he's like do you know that
you're just talking to the wrong people
right now what dick no no I mean he's
being nice about it but like
I mean I I feel like I'm less bothered
by people being like yeah I think you're
like hard too I just okay yeah I see
that's how you are well you're actually
like a part of like these like
communities you know like how'd you get
into it you [__] contributed you know
and like
that's how I anyway whatever bro all
right just read this though yeah
see what I mean like I have to get kind
of
so Matt completes almost like a front
end to help
um The Fill data exactly and we're just
going to build a front end on top of the
front
I mean it feels like it almost feels
like
we don't need to go that route I really
I've just I mean the only thing is
they're right right because they're fill
out capability is good right uh it's
okay yeah but you know I do I know what
you mean in terms of like
my argument before was like they have no
features that we need
because we could use openstreetmap as
the data set but then Google has these
UI like apis that we can like render
like a Google map like within our app
like they've actually which is like kind
of [__] up because like you're not
using open source like we're talking
about but
openstreamap has that too
you know that right openstreetmap has
like a Google view is there maps I mean
it's not as good as Google Maps but it
is a rendered like like okay there's
multiple renders when you go to Google
Maps right there's the like satellite
view there's like the reduced like
Street like where it just shows you like
the gray buildings and everything I hear
what you're saying and I know that
openstreetmaps has that but what I'm
saying that Google literally offers
to give you those to like render those
views like their views in your app yeah
I know so does yeah yeah so does yeah
then how could it be shittier it's the
same thing
you know I mean it's their
infrastructure of map rendering yeah I'm
saying Google lets you use theirs right
yeah yeah so there's two options there
but I I would prefer to just stay open
yeah maybe I can't eat this yeah yeah
you want to save it or no yeah obviously
I don't know what else
do you have Fitness like I feel like you
don't really need fitness goals
I just want to exercise yeah to feel
good yeah
progress as much as I just want to get
like six months of consistent exercise
that's that that's great yeah
all right
what's the cues what's the Q kig uh
q6ig's way or qgis what's qgis uh it's
like a GIS query language I imagine
yes
uh is this is this running what's up
with this can I put this in yeah you
could put it in I'm not running it yet
after you put it in I'll run it
yeah
see that's the problem with cooking it's
like half the time I was cleaning
because I was like so like you know I
really but it works out you know do I'm
feeling it
I'm feeling [__] hard
and it wasn't like a heavy like
yeah
let's just do this every day bro
okay yeah
I gotta do is incorporate Hannah into
don't forget exactly what she said
um
I think that's where Paris was one of
the one of his first tenants too oh
really yeah
every um a lot of
no a lot of people don't have um
uh house they have a smartphone though
now because it's just so essential yeah
and social media app I mean it could
actually kind of I mean can you talk
about like public health like there's a
lot of things oh one one interesting one
that I read kind of humanizes like that
usage too trans bathrooms funny
bathrooms that are like oh yeah which is
an interesting yeah but that's like I
feel like that's got to be like a
big attribute already
no
dude well there are two types of
bathrooms like there's like private
bathrooms yeah
where should I put this this I'm just
gonna put it here
foreign
I
just need to read this a little more
yeah
I'm pretty fast
this guy kind of like
um didn't really answer the question
directly
um but but this
I mean no he's actually quite helpful
like there's there's this XY question
that people always comes up on Hacker
News where someone's like how do I do
this and and they don't say why they're
asking or what they're trying to do so
it's actually very hard to help someone
you know what I mean so I'm trying to
stay open to the fact that look I don't
really know what I'm doing right yeah
now they're being patient I mean it just
it feels like
um
look like I I felt like they were almost
like two ways of approaching this right
like exactly like the only other way I
can think of is some form of pagination
we just talked about effective
pagination is like Gathering you know
destroying notes yeah right yeah tiling
that's a pagination and so so at any
rate um
I feel like you were that that was it
would have been nice if he directly
answered that but uh it seems like there
is a sort of best practice for querying
um
and then this guy said
and it's not built but it actually
connect but overpass is different than
than
um
we should definitely head downstairs
mind if I just yeah go ahead
you should watch with me
so about
yeah I've heard of BB bike too I heard a
BB bike actually really yeah huh I
didn't know about it I heard about it in
Europe
you know it'd be cool this would be
um dude this is just not how I you and I
yeah hmm what
all right I remember I showed you
yesterday how I'd approached this which
was what
how to incorporate
and Google Maps into react app right
right and then it's like it's a medium
article
I'm we're seeing this now you see how
their map is rendered
um I could I could swap Google ad with
osm
but look look at that it already has an
MPX
MPX is like
um like a templated yeah exactly and it
also it's also a run time for npm so
like you can use MPX to like run
uh certain npm commands it's a little
weird but but at any rate like X stands
for execute yeah
I all right you want me to back out of
here all right well I just really want
you to see the value of uh doing it open
completely like all right I'll see you
through I'll Trust you on that because
like I think there's a lot of value in
Aesthetics
I yeah there is and that's why I think
we should just Upstream aesthetic
improvements to the osm community
I mean because then we're just beholden
to Google Maps but if you use an open
source project you're beholding to the
community you actually can change the
community whereas submitting issue
requests to the Google Maps they just
don't respond of course yeah you're
totally right you can't even contribute
to the you can't even offer a solution
you know how much easier it is to like
here you know here's the problem here's
my proposed solution here's a PR like
like if it's a small you're you're right
let's improve the like I had it I had to
like I pulled down map complete
yesterday this little error with the
text box I can look into that I'm just
not thrilled with the tech the UI Tech
that you use oh yeah I mean there was no
when you go to search there's no
recommendations there's no autocomplete
recommending that's true that's an
amazing feature that Google has yeah
because it contextually based on your
location and how you're going and all
that stuff I mean this doesn't look
great you know this is looking a little
plain it's looking a little thin I I you
were talking about a real feature but
even like small UI bugs
mm-hmm yeah exactly yeah dude totally
and anytime you're trying to prove out
something in software and do something
new like you're in like it's just by
necessity you're gonna hit all of these
bugs and frustrations because nobody has
tried to do this before you're doing
something new so you're gonna hit tons
of these annoying walls but it's the
right way to do it wait don't show my
email sorry oh I'm sorry
is that uh was that anything no no that
was that was just about a verification
email I already clicked it up and verify
so put your facts go but yeah you do
have to be careful when you stream yeah
man
so you got a little taste your own
medicine
trust me I've done much worse so
not like anything like NSFW but just
like I accidentally flash my email or my
calendar
I remember when cone leaked that API key
guys listen no it was me that I actually
leaked it but yeah we're gonna blame
Cohen for that yeah
uh
but so so what do you want if you guys
have seen Alex Cohen yeah I mean I don't
I shouldn't joke I mean he's fine you
know but it's like he hasn't been
working on this for a few days we're
kind of worried about him yeah he might
have to get well I'm not gonna say it
but yeah yeah you know some some people
carry other people's uh you know people
don't yeah ml is a pretty important part
of this obviously
um and
you know he's he's he's our chief
scientist you know in that sense yeah
um you know as a colonel Dev I don't I
I'm just a systems guy
you know I'm just I'm just a systems guy
are we on Twitch right now by the way
yeah let's [__] go so there actually
might be an audience yeah I can check I
don't think there's yeah okay yeah
anyways like because the Chrono guy on
this I don't have a lot to say
it's not kind of like my my sphere stuff
I'm just about keeping things Snappy
and the ideas I'm implementing are from
like 1980. since there's two viewers
dear you dead ass are there any comments
no
no no chat yet but there's so there's
two viewers it could be that it's
counting me somehow but it might be
counting you I don't know anyways uh was
it gonna say though I think okay there's
there's two ideas that I had when we
were discussing this one would be cool
is to just Implement a really and I know
that there's ways of doing this but we
basically create a population density
map of the world and then we tile we
create a tile where the basically
expected number of people in any given
uh tile of the sphere has the same
number of people this is a common thing
that people do in Geo whatever you see
what I'm saying so like Montana will
have bigger squares but it's it's
similar to what I'm following
Congressional Congressional districting
or whatever
um but uh okay here's a question though
um It's actually kind of an interesting
problem in the sense of like
um
could can you guarantee that you could
tile things so that like the populations
they contain are even so it's uniform uh
like a density right yeah that you can
yeah but but can you guarantee that that
you could tile the whole earth that way
yeah
uh well uh well if you could cut now if
human beings are like not continuous
though say you have like free people in
the world
mm-hmm
you tile one bounding box half half the
world gets one box of one as density of
one and then half gets two can't do it
why wouldn't you make three tiles
oh [__] yeah that's [__]
sorry
and
I can't say that no
that's not this is what it is
um actually I don't actually yeah I say
that sometimes
actually uh I found out that Alzheimer's
does not run my family oh really yeah I
did like the 23 and I did the whole
thing yeah 23 me dude you got to get on
Prometheus dude I'm on like the whole
like I'm all about open I'm open source
in My DNA someone's gonna want my DNA
but I want to know what I do you should
upload it to this
Prometheus
do you upload your 23andMe and it tells
you all of the single nucleotide
polymorphisms that are there's this sick
thing called uh you mean not do that
uh do you want to check out my twins
yeah dude we should do that do you get
all like
four billion base pairs or probably not
right I think you get everything you can
download the entire genome yeah but it's
like they don't make it easy yeah yeah
or like it's not it's not even that it's
just like
they they don't assume you're like you
know in like a biologist yeah yeah but
that's yeah dude that's the whole thing
about what you're talking about software
development is just creating views for
dumb dummies yeah is wrong I mean oh
it's it makes sense you need to reduce
the complexity so people can synthesize
information but like still it's like if
you you should always still give people
the option to have the the full thing
and do way more with it than you would
ever expect people to be able to do and
I I totally I totally believe that I was
saying that actually sometimes I'm so
focused on the latter that it kind of
stops me even completing the project
because that leads to wanting to like
make things more and more abstract like
for instance like if I'm writing like if
I'm writing like an app like oh like
what if someone uses the code API in the
future
um you know oh I gotta write a function
this way yeah dude I have that problem
yeah yeah right right yeah yeah and and
really it's you know it's all the only
thing I feel like we've learned the last
20 years about software engineering
that's completely iterative
these systems are too complex to have
Global optimization you can only
optimize locally and hope for the best
interesting
oh interesting
let's see yeah this is my 23andMe I can
see my relatives and my dad did it too
so I know I'm related street map Meetup
there's an osm Boston meetup group I
should join this
oh it's dead
wait what's weird is it says I'm 51
Ashkenazi Jewish so there's like
problems Within
and my dad is definitely zero because we
looked at his
um
have you done yours no I I want to but I
don't want Google to advertise to me or
get give that to the insurance companies
but I mean that's kind of like a
paranoid way to look at it well yeah but
I
you know
all right I'm not gonna answer
yo can I can I um can I just say uh so
we had a con we have a concrete plan for
me like if you just let me like what
I'll do is I'll render the HTML table
and we'll link it
to sit like we talked yesterday
like a goal a goal like a like a like a
thing produced is like just get an HTML
table like you put in your current
location or like we calculated for you
whatever HTML table we show you in order
closest bathrooms you click it links you
to Google Maps takes you in yeah and I
could do that today I'm telling you yeah
I'll do that right now yeah yeah
absolutely so can I just I'll focus on
that and we can collab on I'm sure we
can figure out how to collab on that but
the stuff with like tiling and stuff is
like I can't well I just wanted to
propose an interesting problem that we
yeah while we're eating as we're doing
I'm just saying we can learn about how
because I mean this is not only
applicable to free to P like learning
about GIS and like how people do geo
stuff is applicable for lots of very
cool cool jobs totally I I totally agree
you actually remember we were talking
about like open there's like a Tran
there's like a trans like a traffic
protocol oh yeah yeah uh at any rate uh
so yeah okay I don't want you thinking
like uh yeah so I'm I'm on task here
okay will you will you write that API in
Julia in auction uh okay so here's my
problem with oxygen we could talk out
the tech could be interesting for anyone
watching so
let's get on the board dude come on all
right
I know yeah well did you do that and
then we can hop on the board and make
some content out of this too you have to
understand that like uh I don't uh
you're rendering HTML on the server side
and either you're doing that we could
talk about it but either it's like for
each request or it's rendered once and
that's when it's build time and so it's
static HTML but if you want that HTML to
do anything interesting when it's on the
browser
like either that doesn't need to be
server-side requests back to oxygen XML
which runs the API or it could be
client-side via Java because Java by
JavaScript because JavaScript is run in
Google Chrome or anything but it's going
to be static HTML right it's going to be
scary so you you make a query to the API
it returns you back
an HTML table
I say you don't make a call so you do
generate the HTML on request on get but
then you just send that static file over
right that's a way to that's one way to
do it right and then oxygen would work
but what if you wanted to instead
anything Dynamic it goes out the door
right right but I don't really mind but
if you want to make requests on the
client side like what if what does that
mean
you know what I mean so on the client
side you make requests yeah within the
browser the brow within your within your
web page a web page can make requests on
the users from the user can you use
static forms to do that I don't know
what that is like just like a normal
form like a content type form
and then there's a way to just post
forms
and then you just have a page that
allows you to input you can do this all
with static HTML like so let's let's
talk it out because uh yeah I know what
you're saying in terms of we could do
that with oxygen we could do yeah well
the first part yeah right okay
but let's get to the Whiteboard yeah
and I'm so sore from the gym boys
crazy
little soul [__] large
let's see who's on Discord to see if if
oh man
is this just gonna work there's no way
wait actually put it in here
it's so cool that Discord has a
streaming mode all right let's switch
our display
where did this thing go though
oh it was my video
ah [__] damn
that's not cool
um
cool all right
set up see my charger
see here
like I just unplugged my phone but I
don't really want to do that
what do I need my phone for I don't
really need my phone
foreign
mm-hmm
what is this these are these speakers
hey
cool cool cool
um
how do we do this
let's let's start with a
a small section of planetarosa
broad catching
country extracts
minutely dis Regional extractors
I'll download Luxembourg let's go
PBF bz2
and these are the diffs all right let's
do it let's Download a pdf file
why are all of these like this
okay
um
yeah see I'm a dumbass I need to move
this to
I'm just gonna move it right now
keep everything in my
Dev
in here I should just exercise but I
don't give a [__] I'm also going to
download the bz2 because I don't really
give a [__]
cool
expand that
wait
openstream at PBF
yo have you seen the slipper have I seen
a slipper yeah no
no
oh what's up
it's actually pretty annoying I've been
looking for this slipper for two weeks
so I'm downloading all of Luxembourg to
get a feeling of a planet.osm
can we see the form effort it's probably
Json it's just XML
why are they doing an XML
this thing was made 20 years ago all
right
I need to do this
in my own video by the way I know the
video is on but I'm like in the frame
huge all right can you that's actually
fine you can put me you can put my face
in well I mean I get it now because I'm
just you see what I'm yeah just trying
to say I'm cold down here yeah
oh [__] um
dude nicest
it's so important to have a good setup I
feel like
yeah all right
so I'll show you this thing actually it
was compressed like all to all hell like
I didn't realize that this thing was
gonna be a gig but it's a gig
oh [__] luxembourg's a gig but I have
all of Luxembourg
vs code should be able to render this a
bit faster
uh I'm just gonna start earlier
there we go
I guess I was doing a lot with it
with it yeah it was doing a lot with it
okay it's interesting sometimes with a
large file you'll get like um you know
you know we exceed the memory
um yeah you're gonna have to figure out
what's going on here I'm gonna close
this closing numbers Slack
terminal I don't like this
oh yeah
all right so
these are all these node IDs I don't
want to do a find on this
I wanted to actually look at
my T nice
Luxembourg is too big
did I file that scan-ish that thing on
is good
I don't see this thing
for me to clean up some of this it's
just like totally insane
for now
two of my reviews are just like right
now
TP usage oh it's doing some nonsense
that's why mobile software update
pretty lame
okay whatever
we're all good okay
uh what is it what am I using I'm gonna
do this
read XML we did it to XML dict
geez that stinks that's really stinky
actually
whatever
see how long this takes
you find it no
[__] it
Jesus Christ
oh nice
oh God
it's unbelievable
there's no way I can read this no one's
up there
what I'm trying to make a joke you know
what I might do what
I'm kidding
um
code spaces dude I don't I just need
actually you know what I'm gonna do I'm
gonna do this and
deep sea
um I'm kind of blocked until we like
make kind of do an agreement on
the tech oh yeah let's start this okay
dude this can you start streaming by the
way make the twitch yeah day one it's
time to do this all right let's go
um twitch right yeah can I sign in
through Google you may be able to yeah
honestly I'm not like super comfortable
with being super open so
I'll just call this uh mnf
you really think that twitch is not
gonna have
dude what there's a lot of people that
use twitch
um
crazy
I didn't really make any changes so
that's okay I just need to change my
Branch I'm switching to a computer
that's more RAM
you're gonna see how much RAM
yeah
insane
all right my my username is get excited
about the setup nice all right I like it
can I do I like your capital G or
lowercase definitely lowercase I mean I
always I always sneak this [__] so oh
you snake it dude that's such a Julia
[__] sea kite Type move dude I it's
just proven to be here it's way more
readable dude Enterprise move yeah that
is so Enterprise yeah and I love that
you rep Enterprise business like this
yeah because it just makes no sense
all right
let's get a copy of I'm I'm doing snake
case
let me tell you something should people
just tell you something yeah
do you know what Pascal case is ah you
don't I think so I mean I've heard of it
I don't actually know what it is
everything's capitalized except you know
oh so it's like it's like Fortran type
of thing it's like camel kids yeah okay
okay what is unzip bz2
let's forget this
we have Visa
nice
cool
well it takes a while then press
all right oh yeah cool and it deletes it
beautiful
okay so what I'm gonna
so okay so there's two routes that we
can do to develop this API thing right
now one we can just forward the results
of the I'll wait till you're done doing
that because I know that that's just
like get it done and then
we can chat
oh do you capitalize the G [__] man um
Pascal case on my [__] you kidding me
it's all right I don't want you the
interests do I have to no I don't great
77 notifications
okay so now you can go back to OBS
you've done your thing
and now he's uh uh click Start streaming
I think
okay yeah open settings
okay now uh go to stream now connect
account
and then you put in your this thing
didn't work for me last time actually
which is kind of weird but um
so I just had to do the stream key but
if this doesn't work I'll just show you
how to put in a stream key which is
but
then I I just want you as you do this
just be really careful about uh
okay
just because uh
you do forget
I know I've
like
and then one thing I think would be
really hype is if you move this little
webcam but I don't know if you want to
do that yeah I'll move it where should
we move it right there yeah all right
yeah
it says unconnected
nice
okay
um
yeah I gotta update my DOT files
no you don't yes I do
this remote Server doesn't have my DOT
files up to date
what did I add
these categories suck
no do science and technology
beautiful dude I'm so hyped they're
getting down with the mission
oh wait I'm gonna have to do this
anyways uh
foreign
yeah yeah do it
um
oh we got a loop Loop
hold on here
thank you
you know who's upstairs who that is
what
that's a good joke
oh that's good oh yeah it's kind of
funny right yeah that's good I
completely missed that yeah that's great
um I'm surprised foreign
here we go
all right I'm streaming can you check
this out yeah make sure we're gonna send
the link oh uh send the link what like
does it like send your the link to your
uh yeah
okay
all right yeah so uh I know what it is
let's get get excited about the setup
yeah pretty good name right yeah
I don't skip any letters like
okay you're left dude oh that sucks
[__] knife
it's a little slow yeah it's gonna be uh
delayed a little bit how come that's
naturally yeah you can actually change
the delay time this is like very
flattering to my face I do not look like
this guys that's just my side profile
but
fantasy me in person now
cool all right
um
yo so yeah
um I'd love to get some chat some
feedback
um on how I'm doing this my first stream
oh actually do you have Amazon Prime uh
yeah you uh so turn off turn off the
screen cap okay should I know that's
locked turn the eyeball a little eyeball
thing okay so now go to and do somewhere
there's like how to connect uh Prime to
Twitch and now you'll get it'll save
your recordings for for much longer so
that we can upload the backups to
YouTube because we want everything saved
so that once we have an editor we can
actually use this content word okay I'm
done
are we doing this right now yeah do this
right now because uh most likely you'll
actually need to restart your stream for
to take effect I don't know if that's
actually true but I would do it just in
case because I don't want to lose
anything
you know
um okay so I need to fix the stupid
thing that I did
um
it's gonna be
uh
that I'm gonna go to Twitch Prime
looks like I did it
cool
beautiful nice I don't know I don't know
what that gives me but
uh
so do I just not go to Twitch TV anymore
I just go to Twitch Prime
[__] this up this is supposed to be open
in default first off we want Dark theme
I know it looks like I'm like frowning
but I'm pretty happy guy
is there audio on this thing
uh yeah oh I unplugged your speakers so
that I could charge my thing of course
yeah I just wanna uh here I'll check it
out
um
dude I don't see this link to Twitch at
all but uh or Amazon Prime
twitch at all I said that delayed
actually
that's less delayed because it takes me
to Prime gaming and then
interesting okay weird
um dude I do not play video games guys
like this is like and I don't I don't
totally feel comfortable streaming
personally but yeah it is what it is
yeah so I don't need to do anything else
right yeah you're good okay
so are we going to talk about uh yeah
just give me one second to uh uh
breaking my balls breaking my balls oh
[__]
just showed my email it sucks
all right all right let's turn off the
open open turn this [__] off I I
actually give that my email because I
don't really care but uh look at this
look at this got my therapist on here
God
you'll get used to it trust me
no I don't like this at all this is like
scary you know oh yeah you gotta dude
you gotta manage risk in life
can I can I take that down or streaming
right so you can't well yeah you yeah I
mean anybody that was watching at the
time could take a screenshot yes
beautiful but like you'll just private
that
so like stop the stream yeah
okay now go to twitch but
and go to your account
I've got a video producer yeah this UI
sucks okay now now
um
um interesting uh gonna go to stream
manager I think
okay so this is like the view that a lot
of people do to like manage their chat
and see the preview go to analytics
maybe let's see if they're registered
your uh
oh I need you to follow me by the way
oh there we go head followed on it
nice
good content maybe yeah
a video producer I know that was empty
but I think it might just need to need
to refresh okay wait let me just go to
your profile and see uh
because you're
oh oh actually go to your settings go to
settings here
uh go to stream
um now this is something you never want
to show the primary key uh
um there's probably something about
um
click store pass broadcast
so okay so so what you just streamed was
is gone it's gone but now you want to
click this and then you and then it'll
default to private so that nobody can
see it always publish yeah so turn that
off if you want to default to deprive it
so it doesn't default the private yeah
it does
yeah you're breaking you're breaking
them yeah well I wish I was on the
stream now see I'm getting you are on
students still oh beautiful beautiful
that's the best that's the beauty of
redundancy dude man all right so I'm
good yes you're good
now just close your email tab and uh
you're uh oh I never look at email again
email's done
yeah I mean so guys we had a little SNAP
food but I'm back
um so we're gonna actually can you can
you open it up again
uh open up OBS again okay yeah oh yes
what's up turn off the desktop audio
because it seems like it's duplicating
audio I remember I noticed that when
like here listen us like here
I don't know that sounds weird just turn
off just click the mute on one on that
one just click that one yeah
okay you're screaming too well then no
that's not because of that it's just
because I think that there's two audio
streams with that like I think your
desktop I don't know uh my mic audio I
see what you're just yeah yeah I didn't
even know it could pick up on yeah see
if you're like watching a video then
your streamers will be able to listen to
the video with you even if you have
headphones in Word
I usually don't we uh we're gonna get
this thing started or what what's up
what's up
all right
uh uh let's get a uh so do you want to
start the live share okay I'll start a
live share okay yeah I'm down after that
I have to get live share communicate via
reading these
beautiful reviews and discussions
uh case sure I'll do should we
communicate this on GitHub for posterity
what do you mean like
the live shares like the discussion yeah
that's why I do everything in
discussions but uh
um see here okay so now I'm about it I'm
about to message you something so I
could actually what I could do is I
could keep Messenger as a tab in my
second thing or usually I'm just pretty
good about like turning off the camera
when I need to nah
um but I'm gonna go to messenger and
send this to you
um
all right nice
so yeah so so oh geez oh gosh I oh God
unhide all click on title
nah
nah you
oh boy let me [__] this one up
oh good abuse it's probably in views
um
yeah nice all right how do I pull this
out into another window you wanna why do
you need to pull that on oh [__] but
yeah you're trying to what are you
trying to do I wanna like
I want to like be able to have this at
the bottom right oh that's smart yeah I
don't know that there's a way to do that
all right at least I
there probably is
it probably is but I don't know
oh yeah I forgot I need to uh
[__] this brings me in the full screen
interface wait actually I'm gonna do
this
all right let's talk all right yeah so
so let's open up a new issue right all
right discussions so I have I have one
on switch to openstreetmap I don't know
if we want to go for lots of discussion
posts you could just make a new one we
can just I hear what you're saying yeah
I don't know I don't want to get bogged
down too much on it I mean it does
matter but like
um
maybe I should
whatever
opt out for our MVPs is the name point
because we're not doing the social media
for the MVP
nice yeah I like that yeah keep it coded
um because he's watching yeah um
okay so there's three for doing geodesic
distance that this guy recommended
okay
compute geodesics on an ellipsoid
all right
that is geodesk six
Trail
on a flattened sphere I'm gonna use
distances
okay made the discussion take a read
yeah
I'm gonna tell Alex that it won't impact
the machine learning
this won't impact any
any lnl initiatives uh
you have started
I love that I'm like writing this year
but like I'm next to you yeah it's so
funny I'm happy
um
what's another word for perpendicular
orthogonal yeah exactly
this orthogonal
orthogon now to your to your efforts
to your Department's efforts
please let us know
um
you're planning
we're hiring all right I responded
foreign
but that is that is something that I
don't know like how do you you gotta
give me this bro like I I've like I need
some like I need something I'm familiar
with like
just get familiar
do you know dude dude you got come on
man
and this is also like it's good if I use
an xjs like for
like they'll help me my website and
stuff okay
all right after
all right we'll keep both I mean I'm
working on it right now though like I'll
just we'll just do this together
um
right now
foreign
um
what headers
I don't think I need those
foreign
[Music]
um
foreign
Okay cool so okay so what I'm trying to
do right now is wait let me see if I can
focus you
isn't that great yeah it's great okay so
what power
um so back here I have
the fact that I've made that query so I
was able to given a latitude and
longitude pair
make this is this is using the overpass
query language okay sure okay and so I
say I'm looking for nodes and I want
Json I'm looking for nodes around 10 000
meters from here from these two so this
is a function with like I think this is
a keyword argument and then this is the
position
what do you know who that is I don't
yeah I don't know how she got it but
okay anyways and then all the nodes that
have this property oh [__] yeah it's
only it's only been for a second all
right nice all right so um
so this works and you can see that I get
the data here now the problem is I'm
trying to do this in Julia so I'm trying
to send this query and what I want is
you to help me figure out how http.post
works and if I'm messing up the headers
so in Python this you can post it you
would get it right this is a post
I'm posting this query
are is this one works when you looked at
the API did they say this was a post
well I just asked chatgybt and it worked
so
now I just need to know how HTTP does
posts because like
like here this post only takes two
arguments but then if I look at we
realize oh it doesn't switch your switch
to the tabs to Julia
um
Okay cool so um
this is actually so hyped because now we
have both of them that's really cool but
so if I if I in Julia there's like
what's called Rebel modes so this is
just the default repo mode where it
evaluates the expression that I put in
but I have this one where it goes for
the help so I can do http.post and it'll
give me the doc string here
okay and you see here that it that it
recommends that there's three there's
three Arguments for this this method
there's URL headers and body now you can
see up here that I left I just let
headers be nothing yeah so but but if
you look at J so I print out J and I
look at J dot elements it's empty so
something is going wrong and I don't
know why and it looks like this text is
the exact same
um oh wait do you want to like split
this move this one to that side yeah
yeah just so we can see both so it looks
like it's the same thing
but I don't know why
um
so I mean first off this is a very weird
I mean typically you wouldn't you would
use like
uh the destructive text format you'd use
vjson right but so this looks like it's
its own
um language yeah it's actually its own
language yeah yeah
um
uh
the thing is if I look at response dot
um I get a 200.
I think the headers are wrong like uh
can you put in do you have to put in an
empty array can you just put in like
zero arguments here no you sure yes I
mean here wait I'll just show you so
that you learn
no no like two commas no that does not
work at all okay
the parser just doesn't do that okay
all right
um
so uh yeah I mean you really don't
really need any headers we'd have to
start looking at the API
um how does request that post work I
want to see
defense to nothing
what if we did this
I don't think this is going to do
anything
no still zero elements
um the URL is the same
the query is the same
I believe let me go to Python and type
in queer
oh well one thing you have here is you
have you have um you have these indented
oh yeah well
yeah let's let's try that I guess
he's after anything no
what you do here's how you do string
interpolation
oh wait a hundred is gonna definitely
give us nothing
two thousand I have to run that query
again
see maybe they're like
throttling us now
I kind of doubt it like you said it can
handle millions of requests so if I if I
do like 10 000 a day it shouldn't matter
that's what they said
but it is taking off it no [__]
can I let me maybe I can inspect the
response I hate python though
content type I didn't do this that's why
I think no that's not why though because
I did get Json back
well you know what we can do do you want
to see a cool hack we can just do this
um
and then I'm gonna look at the pi call
Docs
and I think that this should just work
um
I really hate pie call but I just want
to show you that the interop is like
pretty cool
and then I don't think I need the Json I
just need to make the request
uh and then get the Json out so in our
little so in our get thing here
I'm just gonna do uh
this
I actually already have a free so I can
just do this
now I'm gonna evaluate the cell and see
what happens
oh [__] I didn't mean to do that
I should have done just give it a second
foreign
I think I think data is going to be
undefined
um let me go back to the docs
oh I should be able to actually do this
uh
let's try that
wow that's [__] crazy actually holy
[__]
very cool looks like quick too
uh so what is it called it's called
request a text
uh so okay yeah yeah it says uh
you oh element's zero that's so weird so
something's wrong about this stupid
uh
something's wrong with my query here but
these are the same thing
right
oh wait hold on oh no we dude see look
how stupid I am sometimes I'm like
actually branded
oh you actually yeah I I just missed
that okay so wait so I should be able to
just
get back to this
beautiful
nice
and this is probably the this is I'm
almost positive but let's go to map
complete or let's go to uh openstreetmap
Slash node that's this check it out
where are we bathroom at Central Square
wow so okay so cool so I can delete all
the other [__]
so you're gonna delete all the pie call
stuff I can remove this from my
environment because I hate this
get python out of my [__] environment
all right so we are good to go so I'm
gonna make the get request so we can
start serving
um I'm gonna make it actually a let's
make it five thousand
and then that's out you want to have 10
to start with
yeah wait am I actually I don't know I
keep going back and forth on this
nonsense okay so we have the Json
now all we want to do is
um
okay so we have the node IDs
so now
this doesn't give us anything but the
latitude and longitude but now I'm going
to look up distances.jl
Haver sign
so it uh oh and the defaults to the
radius of the Earth cool so I should be
able to do
uh Haver sign
okay cool
uh uh let's see if it has a doc string
how's it implemented
oh it's a type interesting okay and then
okay so this is the uh the oh can you oh
it doesn't let you jump here so I opened
up a file
and I don't think it lets me yeah yeah
oh it does it does oh cool
all right um so anyways we can
um I'm just gonna take the first element
so I'm gonna say ESU ES1 I'm gonna say
uh
e-o elat equals
oh geez
that's productive
um yeah
you know that really keeps you focused
doesn't it
gonna take that again
hey Mike would you would you mind
okay beautiful so this should be the
distance in meters does that make sense
though that seems a little bit far
let's see what my stupid uh my stupid
one uh where is it it's in osm.jl
the album
see what the ALG says
oh
uh I don't know
oh that's just this is an upscale thing
this actually is totally meaningless I
mean it's not meaningless in the sense
that it like at least it's a metric on
that yeah yeah but but yeah it's not
it's quite faster I mean you're also
assumed
let's check
um
so it's just going to run it a bunch of
times and then
all right actually I can show you
something cooler than me
wait a second
um
Okay cool so at least we have that so
now what I'll do is I will uh
I would uh
I already wrote this stuff where's my
sword term
but yeah so I'll need this function
it's okay so let's do this
this move this to the top
okay
um
I actually don't know why my B times
have taken so long I mean it should be
really simple but anyways uh I don't
know why I'm calling them E's I used to
call them ends
whatever
uh
okay so this just gives me a bunch of
tuples because I'm unwrapping it from
the thing yeah okay then I this dot
means broadcast so I'm broadcast I'm
basically mapping this function over the
piece which is these pairs and then uh
this which I actually could do
I don't have to do this but basically
since this is a one element thing I
uh it's gonna try to broadcast in a
weird way okay so this thing
uh
I'll show you this this shouldn't take
as long
ah but it shows you a cool graph it's
really sick yeah it shows you like a
histogram
rendered in unicode
I actually I'm really pleased with that
this oh it's taking so long
I shouldn't have done that anyways
there's a better macro that you can use
to just do things quickly
and use one like three times uh it gives
you a good estimate but okay so now
we're pretty much done we just need to
figure out uh uh uh oh we actually do I
know how to do this this is a there's a
package called pretty tables and they
have HTML export so we just make it a
table and then we uh
do this and we then we render it to the
browser
beautiful
Okay cool so I'm just going to
you know what [__] you Julia
are you are you getting anything else I
hope uh yeah
I mean I just find that Julia is quite
good yeah yeah you're getting a lot done
cool
uh cool cool yeah those are supposed to
air by the way okay because try to read
the the signature so I have there's a
function called parse and it just tries
to parse into a type
but if you try to parse a float into a
float obviously it's going to error
because that method's just not defined
but is it a method error
um yeah no method matching so multiple
dispatch right what it's saying is it
looked up all the methods for the
function name parse and said I didn't
find one where you gave me these input
argument right that means you can find
multiple methods for a given function
name right yeah yeah yeah that's the
whole thing in multiple dispatch anyways
so now we uh do this thing do this thing
um oh and where did we Define this well
we don't need 41 we don't but we don't
want this we actually want have our son
and latitude is not defined it's called
lap and Lawn
cool so now we have the distances here
right so there's this function called
sort perm which is like what is the
index permutation uh that would sort
this list oh sure okay right so like if
I enter this right it gives you the
indices yeah so that's why I love about
python you put and then you put that
back and then yeah exactly all the index
and it sorts it that's so cool and it's
not nsds okay and so now this is I think
uh
let's do this too
this is calling short yeah I just wanted
to check that it wasn't reverse order or
anything yeah yeah okay so cool so these
are the sorted nodes now what I can do
is uh do um let's just oh wait here here
I'll show you the timings so
cool so so just in time compilation you
see the first run it was it was way
slower than the second one oh because it
was compilation so let's try this one uh
okay so this one took that time but it
was all compilation and now and so my
shitty dist is actually really slow
ER than haverson which is very
interesting so someone optimized the
hell out of it anyways
that's just a square root
anyway no
Oscar would be the person to ask about
that okay so now I just want to call DF
equals data frame of this
okay so now we have that and we have the
node IDs and they're sorted right so all
we need to do is add pretty tables
okay and then we need to figure out how
to render HTML
um
and then what we need to do is
I have this in my package graph so
uh my package graph
bin API I always figured how to do this
you do response
you give it the body and you say content
type equals HTML do I even have to do
that
maybe I do what is the content type for
HTML
do your streaming right now no I'm not I
turned it off okay yeah
okay what is the HTML content type
does it just default the text do I even
have to provide it textlash HTML okay
um
uh
no sub header what does that mean and
then I actually want to do
what do we want to provide in in the
HTML table I mean Google Maps we need to
so yeah so could you could you work on
on that actually could you figure out
how we generate those links
because what we want to do is we want to
and since we hit dude since we're in the
we could run the like once I run at a
local host we can like visit it on our
phones and see if it actually opens up
the maps app yeah yeah yeah definitely
okay
but for now I'm just going to do
let's try things
foreign
HTML back end
but you do Val
oh sick okay this is so easy just hit
this
um
beautiful dude that's amazing
Okay cool so I'm ready to serve this
um
are you here you're here right yeah
okay so yeah
um
it's a hat it's a hash
and then what port do I have to what
what uh
if I just put in 127 you should be able
to visit it or no yeah uh no don't I
have to change it from 127 to something
else
um
okay so what you'll be writing is a
function
called uh like
Maps URL and it takes in a lat long pair
and it just generates that URL
um
and then what you'll do is you'll add
that you'll map that function to all of
the nodes that we have
and you'll add that to a column of the
data frame and then that will get
rendered because right now see how I
have yeah
but but the thing is is that we don't
have an origin
so
what do you want to do there what is no
no that's a what are you talking about
dude the lat long is the origin
no well oh oh this is the order oh oh
you're saying no no yeah but so see here
the definition of the get endpoint
we provide this yeah so that's gonna go
there
so can I define a function here yeah
um
I don't know you're doing great
yeah what do you want the arcs to be
um what's oh
origin oh okay yeah
oh for some reason the way that this got
rendered with the dots underneath I
didn't see that there was an underscore
and
loving them I love it every day
oh sorry
sorry I [__] you up no look at me
though
look at that
okay wait hold on are you you got it you
got it
I don't know how to really wait why do
you need this one string hold on yeah so
um
something just weird about the render uh
wait why is it being so goofy
oh no I misspelled it there's an extra
there we go okay it's all good mm-hmm
um
origin equals
and if you're curious I can show you how
to use the Uris
uh package to like do this the right way
instead of just rendering strings yeah
that would be do you want to do that uh
yeah uh yeah okay all right so so let's
just say this is our root
um okay I forget what it's actually
called scheme or something what is it
called do you know
uh you but anyways I'm gonna do URI on
this so we already have a package in
namespace
this and so then I can say uh Maps URI
okay now I can do
uh
oh this is cool and so the query is
empty but so what I can do is I can then
do URI of maps URI query equals dict
I did a couple I didn't do what I wanted
but let's just try this okay see here
see at the bottom that's a weird way to
do a dict though why why why what's this
this looks like a function almost
no the the anonymous function syntax is
okay what is this inside that's called a
pear so so here wait let me just show
you so uh this is the expression so uh
always just inspect the AST see here
down below
anyways if I do this
uh
and oh and with the colon in front this
is called a symbol so let me just this
is the best function in the entire
language ah something is wrong with vs
code okay
it's called the symbol uh so this is the
Primitive type in Julia but anyways if I
just did uh one to two and I called type
of on that
it's called a pair and it's
parameterized by its left and right okay
and so so so anyways a vector of pairs
and what's really nice though is is if I
had like Rand a hundred
a equals this
b equals Rand 100.
I can do a DOT remember the dot means
broadcast so I'm broadcasting this pair
like this so this makes a vector of
pairs so I can then do dict on that so
this is how I usually construct X
oh interesting so anyways that's
uh that's the Dick's pair syntax and
also symbols
but okay
um but so for us oh one thing that's
also nice is let's take this one I don't
know if this is actually
yeah okay so wait so I'm gonna I'm gonna
do this example
uh query is equal to this string and I
[__] that up
okay
then I'm going to do URI
of example query then I'm going to do
query uh here I'll do it I'll just stay
up here queer very params of U and this
is going to return to
uh
and then it gives us a dick to put down
here so this is how you could parse it
if you wanted to like parse them I see I
see that's cool so essentially how would
I pass in an array of these sticks like
this yeah or repairs yeah yeah all right
yeah why is it called addict uh if it's
or
what do you mean or
I don't know so can I just do like
oh yeah I gotta do yeah no no that would
work no that would work no but it has to
be there has to be a comma between so it
has to be like this oh I see it let's
see oh but it's not gonna be like that
it's gonna be
oh oh star sorry yeah I mean dollars
yeah yeah that's just the interpolation
system right uh
just call it lat and because up here we
have these consts for
we could rename them too but yeah okay
um
lawn yeah all right so now if we click
enter on that
that looks pretty good what else did we
need hold on does that look right oh and
then we just need the destination dude
this is so easy oh do we need those
angles you need the angles but you see
how this is uh you
um
the sky URL encoded yeah that's fine do
we want that dude that's fine here okay
uh
uh okay so
test
you all right I need a [__] Celsius
man
I'd be down to smack another yeah dude
you gotta smack it with me because like
I feel I feel like I'm I'm in I'm in the
passenger seat that's okay yeah go go no
you're doing you're pulling me and
you'll pull me in give me [__] blunt
dude you're actually crushing this like
like you're absorbing like a lot of new
stuff though oh thanks man like like the
reason why I'm being a [__] about node
is because I just I'm afraid to learn no
oh okay I appreciate you saying that
yeah I mean no it's true
um so let's just try to uh I think this
will work
Okay cool so that worked
it did so let me just see what the HD
body is
press that to a string
so this is an HTML document
but I don't know what to do with that
but all we need to do okay so all we
need to do is we have this function now
right so
uh all we all we need to do is on the
get request we need to just hot swap we
just need to create a new URI with this
so
um so our function here is going to be
uh
do we need a destination that long yeah
yes we definitely do yeah right okay so
then we need to we need to add in here
that looks good except I got an extra
thing here I mean also the origin so we
these are Global right so I guess they
don't I mean it's kind of nice to keep
them local scope I agree I agree okay
no no they have to be yeah yeah they
have to be okay
um okay so see all this function is and
one thing that's nice about Julia you
can also do this that's nice
one line functions that's nice which is
like kind of nice but uh for now I'm I
don't really care so wait so
um
let's just test this function
uh actually okay I don't really care so
now we have our uh our pairs so our
pairs are here
so what we want to do
actually uh
yeah okay okay hold on
um
yeah you'd have the broad yeah yeah but
I mean no no there's a way to Splat
there's a way to Splat it's okay it's
flat
um yeah so like I'm gonna Define a
function down here or I'm gonna say Foo
of a b is equal to a plus b I'm gonna
say x is equal to one comma two I'm
gonna find this I can say Foo of x
and so it unre so but if I were to do
Foo of X it would say no method matching
Vector of n but if I unwrite but it dot
dot dot and a function column right it's
like we'll spread it it's called a Splat
okay anyways that's just one way to do
things
um
but
um okay so now we need to broadcast this
we need to map this function over all of
our Pairs and our okay so lat long in
this scope in the get scope is our
origin so we want to do this lat long
how do you tile that like how do you
tile this over
oh we're not a for Loop right so how do
you tile this over all the destination
lat long pairs how do you tile one
origin that long
I would do
um and then I want to do it over all my
pairs
that should work
oh shoot
okay there we go yeah nice so so then
these are URLs that was sexy I keep
pressing shift insta control okay so now
what I'm going to do is DF dot Maps URL
is equal to urls
um
okay now if I print DF there's a Maps
URL now what I want to do is view view
DF I'm just going to take a subset of
columns and I just want that's it oh and
I want node I want node I want I want
I ID
I don't want any attacks for now we can
deal with the tags later okay uh then I
want to render The View DF and you see I
make an i o buffer I pretty table takes
an i o so it's writing it to the buffer
and then when I return it I take from
the buffer so it's just bites okay so
now with the exclamation point is it a
macro oh great question yeah so it's a
very interesting convention in Julia
that says that I'm gonna mutate my first
argument the parser doesn't do anything
with it it's literally just a convention
I see which is a very interesting and
you know debatable whether or not that's
like
that's interesting the best thing that's
culture but anyways so we uh all right
so let's go we are serving it up all
right what's our lat long
and what's your what's your IP address
on my land you should be there uh that's
I feel like that's not right right I
feel like it's our localhost it's
listening on this and I don't know what
that means but we can figure that out
um I just want to do this uh how do I
uh okay
I'm going to do it the slow way so okay
we're going to do we're going to slash
this
nice hey it's not clickable so we need
to fix that but I do want to visit so
now what happens if I just take this URL
and go here
nice it didn't start it which is
annoying maybe there's a is it did you
is it where are the docks is there a way
to like start this immediately start it
what do you mean uh like oh it is wait
can you close Facebook and start your
thing up again or you don't have to yeah
yeah all right
um at least the cameras on
there's not a start
look it doesn't
oh interesting that oh yeah here we go
direction action navigate
launches either turn by turn navigation
or Route 3 due to the specified user
based on why the origins available the
user specifies An Origin is not
uh the matches
okay so so now so so
we should just add that in right yeah
okay
and so do dur action equals navigate I
think
cool that looks good to me
okay I'm gonna reevaluate this and redo
this kill the server
there's also travel mode yeah I saw that
but I don't want to deal with that right
now it seems like a really annoying
thing you have to do with
it okay so this is the URL
and it does have Direction now we get
did it not start it didn't start it also
what what's good with the the angle
brackets
yeah maybe you take those off and see if
we can
try to take those off
right yeah that's
oh okay that's why we're getting enough
where's the start I don't even see the
start
oh this is just directions this doesn't
actually like do you see what I'm saying
like oh no I just have to click on one
of these
uh I mean no that didn't even do it
either
you shoot them do you see what I'm
hitting here what is going on you're
trying to like what are you trying to do
okay like I went to one of our URLs here
and it did set this up nicely but
there's no like start
button uh click one route via
let's just start
um
do options Maybe
oh oh which you should click that type
you should click the like car car and
then Oh you mean this still then maybe
do directions Cedars uh
it might not
all right let's see on the regular
Google Maps
yeah Chipotle whatever
you get directions
wait what can you not start uh I think
on on a desktop maybe yeah so okay so we
need to figure out how to get
visit on my phone wait okay wait cohn's
it
all right can you do you want to get the
cell or should I I can get that I can
get it what Celsius oh the South uh you
gotta go get this upstairs I can use the
actually let's both go let's take a
second to decompress
okay that's a pretty good start I'm
gonna commit
um
yeah can you just get me
um I just want to know
like how to find your uh
can you do I this command if you config
get if adder and one
yeah yeah I because then we can use on
it oh wait
hold on I am
I must be doing port forwarding because
I'm on a remote server right now oh you
are will this will this I might not be
able to show this hold on
I don't know
it'll probably work if you're port
forwarding
ah [__] I don't have pseudo axis on this
computer all right so what I'm gonna do
is I'm gonna commit pull
oh you're doing run this run this
locally because because the problem is I
downloaded Luxembourg and I needed more
RAM than I had yeah but we switch gears
so I don't need to do that anymore so uh
so added I can uh turn turn this back on
I added uh basic HTML table API
okay so that's cool and I should be able
to do this new um okay never mind what I
was gonna say could we we should
probably add Cohen in the commit message
but oh it's all right that's all right
okay so now I'm gonna get pull
okay oh wait uh sure I don't need
anything there
oh
okay
um overpass API starting Trulia I'm
gonna need to update because I added a
couple of dependencies then I should be
able to just
run this thing
pretty good not bad yeah all right
I'm going to go back to oh yeah so now
I'm gonna do if config
remember this thing didn't work last
time we did it some other way
because
still starting up okay
this is what I'm saying Russ is because
Julia's first call is slow to to compile
all this stuff right because there's a
lot being about now we have it
keep it here
so it works the same but we need now we
need to test on our phones so what do I
do about this thing uh did you try doing
um yeah what was it again I yeah
ipconfig get uh remember remember I had
to like go to settings because I'm on a
Mac right right oh that's what it was it
wasn't it like about this Mac or
something yeah yeah yeah I mean that's
another way to do it yeah
yeah I mean
turn off the thingy okay this is
settings are about this Mac yeah
and then click Network yeah
and then Wi-Fi
details I don't think it's oh yeah it is
that yeah so and I want to serve to that
right well put that in the oh I think
that was a rust problem right because
you don't put that in I don't put that
in the serve call yeah I don't think so
let's try it let's see I mean so what
was the what was the IP oh you wanted me
to read it out yeah okay 10 yeah oh oh
124 right two two four
and then I'm serving on I don't know 880
yeah
but if you just go to that it's not
gonna you need to give it a lat long
pair so what I can do is I can add a get
endpoint to root that just like
I'll do that I'll add a get to Roo
it's not working for me all right let's
try this what if I serve to a different
so it's ten dollars I mean because I'm
not even serving to that like uh is that
how that works I don't know I this is
like a that's like an application like
so but it's this IP right
okay yeah try sir put in the surf call
put in the um your Network's IP and I
also I'm gonna add a get request to or
get and point to root to slash so that
you should be able to just yeah okay so
uh
okay so host
and then Port is already defaulted to
that so let's just try that again
yeah nope
10.0.0.24 yeah
on 80 80.
oh but wait oh wait hold on
no it's not it's not working for me
either hold on I want to see what the
example is let's try this
um yeah one one
okay so something's going wrong with the
serve oh wait but this is a float it
needs to be a float
I actually know that's that's that'll
work anyways um
if we just go to slash it's
oh wait so slash did work
interesting try to get a try to just go
to
oh yeah yeah cool
so what was up the uh
so sorry I must have broken something I
don't know what I broke but something
isn't a lot long
oh amazed because you have a slash from
lat long I don't know because we were
doing that
nice yeah the man is here beautiful
we're coming let's let's take a break
let's take a break I'm gonna I'm gonna
mute but uh
video on
I wish to see you is why I need a bigger
desk yeah okay we're on we're on stream
we're on mute all right we gotta figure
this thing out what happened why is this
thing great all right we're debugging
right now I'm gonna turn off the host
thing just so I can do it local just to
show
oh I have to check out that thing oh
yeah it's cool you don't actually have
to check it out you're doing the
marathon right which one I signed up for
a full Marathon you are full blunt yeah
dude you should do it
well first of all I
I haven't been running I said okay
and I would be even biking running again
and then then but like where am I gonna
do it like if I went to Ohio I would
like stay with her taking her car right
and now I'm obviously not gonna do that
is there marathons in the summer
but I don't want to do it over the
summer I'm afraid of like getting heat
through it yeah because it's a
possibility I could see that
happened
have you been hiking biking
um
gotta keep physical I've been in Solana
and I've been oh really yeah because
you're always exercising I mean I've
been playing a lot of times
okay so uh all right so let me just show
you what we have
okay so it's still just another oxygen
API uh but you so I go to the end point
this is just the root endpoint and this
utility is actually really nice we can
like probably split this desk up oh you
already have some something set up yeah
so okay so you submit oh hold on I
definitely just broke it yeah
why did I break it what happened
he's been breaking the [__] left and
right man that's crazy all right let's
see this guy that's friends with him
I can mute tell me when to mute yeah
this is why [__] streaming sucks you
guys are just definitely wrong yeah do
you want to start streaming he's
straight well he's screaming for a [__]
I'm shooting on Twitch because the stats
are I get way better stats
should I do it on YouTube
I do have twitch oh yeah I would do it
on Twitch yeah science science and
technology has a big reach uh okay hold
on all right let me open up
JK it does have the distance but now why
did my endpoint fail
okay
let's just try it again I don't know
what happened
oh wait it's because I have the old uh
stupid thing hold on
uh yeah okay I'm just being a dumbass
okay cool I added the distance in
all right what about if you tried the um
the other
um
um do you want to stretch it to the host
yeah like it's that like yeah how come
that wasn't working
I feel like we did this before dude I
definitely remember that we had this
what did we do I totally let me try
hitting let me try hitting I mean look
at the rust code
what
it shouldn't be showing my password
I don't care it's just
are you close you close up yes you're
fine
it feels like a pretty bad bug in Linux
though
it's probably not yeah I can't hit
anymore
well maybe I can try hitting well no I
mean
you wouldn't be able to I'm I'm on
127.0.1 yo how do you do a poll from
this thing again
um
so so uh actually what you probably want
to do is just join the live session that
I posted in messenger all right
okay but how do you do that though
um I usually use the command block
skitful
or at least get fetch and then I use the
the
get Federal look for all the new
branches
Okay cool so you see how it added a new
Branch New Branch that's my Branch so
you could click on Main
to see your branch yeah but do you want
to get set up with that with twitch sure
hell yeah
when's it let's see if the lawn is
dude okay
yes how do I render this as a tags dude
can I I mean I know I know it's just
part of the uh pretty tables API I need
to be able to specify that those are you
that column is a link column yeah
exactly
or not well you need to render them okay
hold on I'll just look at
hello HTML and
oh I could do this yeah
okay and then there's also something
that we can I can have you do that I was
looking into
um
I I asked some people that work on map
complete about how we can
um
how we can find all of the nodes so if I
go to uh uh
well I find this here now I'll get Wiki
if I go to uh
toilets this is the wiki for openstream
apps it says that there's about 280 000
nodes with the amenity equals toilets
tag yeah and so I was trying to figure
out how is it that we could download all
of the those nodes and there is a way I
don't know the way to download all of
the ideas that have this
um but what I like without searching
through everything exactly without
downloading planet.osm exactly
um and I did we didn't really get that
much helpful stuff
right like anyways the the punch line is
that they they uh allow you to um
if you go to the planet.osm page they do
allow you
to download like a subset so Luxembourg
has like a Luxembourg download so you
can go here and it's just an FTP server
or whatever and you can get like the
bzip
it's just a fire file transfer protocol
uh I don't think this is like this is
like an Apache thing right
whatever whatever the point is that this
uh will let you download I do think
that's an impact yeah it is right yeah I
forget what that's called but whatever I
I also thought it's f2b to start though
like when I first yeah but now I know
anyways so this is like the entire osm
this is like everything for Luxembourg
so when you and it's like a game so it's
actually kind of too big to uh
like you'll run out of ram at least I
did
um downloading the whole thing yeah but
I was thinking you could like start to
play around with like ml like inference
or and like train just
using that as a data says Luxembourg
so that's one thing that you could point
you could like look at but where we're
at now is is the following so I have
this API in oxygen and basically all it
does is given a latitude longitude pair
of the two path parameters it makes a
query in this language called overpass
query language which is a basically a
query language to access openstreetmap
data and I I say this language I really
don't know well at all but I know it I
know what this stuff means I say give me
in Json all the nodes within 5000 meters
from this latitude and longitude that
have the tag amenity equals toilets and
limit the output to 10 nodes okay so
that's what this query is so I do an
HTTP post where I send to this URL which
is is like hosting an instance of the
overpass API that query and then that
gives me a bunch of Json back with the
elements I convert those elements a
snatch out the lat long pairs from from
those nodes then I can compute the
Hammer sign distance with respect to the
origin point that we point it to because
the average sign is like the spheric
distance on the sphere okay and so we're
assuming that the Earth is a sphere I
don't think we really need to go any
further than that um yeah I mean you
probably if they're only within 500
meters you don't even need to do that
yeah yeah it turned out this was
actually fast we benchmarked it and I my
stupid little uh Pythagorean theorem it
was actually faster but anyways so then
I sort by distance I convert it to a
data frame I add in the distance as a
column so what is this just has all kind
of the information that's on that
Wikipedia page
what like when you so you're doing this
query and it's giving you a Json with
like everything on this page that is
contained in that location
um hold on I'll show you
so okay so this is like a front end for
making queries so here what I'm saying
is so I can I can just write queries on
this thing let me just put in our
uh
I'm gonna kill the server real quick
okay I'm just gonna copy this
over here
let me go on your live shirt nice
okay cool
nice
oh did I kill the live stream I think I
might have killed the live show yeah it
didn't work yeah
because I had to switch from a remote
server to a
my local so just give me one moment and
I'll resend it
okay
it's honestly not that bad
all right
so what is it so how did you set up the
server I don't really get that uh so
oxygen this oxygen.jl is a package
uh that allows you to do
uh rest apis so if we just go to oxygen.
W what's the tagline I was reading up
about rest apis and other types of apis
yeah so it's a micro framework built on
top of HTTP so it allows you to spin up
a web server real quickly
uh it's really nice actually I I really
like this Library a lot
so uh so I'll I'll continue
here so this is the main this is the
main endpoint that we've that we've
written so far and basically
there's this cool package called
prettytables.jl which allows you to
write a data frame into HTML
so let's just let's just get this going
so
um oop I don't know how that happened
okay okay whatever
um
so okay so this is the end point so so
when I go here it says I'm sir I'm
listening on this thingy uh and so you
can see here I have two path parameters
the lat the latitude and the longitude
and so when I do this it queries and it
runs this function and then returns this
HTML table and so what we what Mike and
I were trying to do is because what I
want as our the MVP is basically I visit
this website on my phone it take it like
asks me for my if I'm allowed to give it
location it takes my latitude and
longitude then it generates this table
and you just click on this link and it
immediately opens Google Maps and
navigates you to a given place the
current hiccups are like right now he
can't access it and I can't access it on
anything but this computer so when you
figure out how to do that
um I know we we were able to do it at
one point but I don't remember how we
did it
um
but we want to test this uh but anyway
so this is where we're at
it's pretty cool
let me see if I can
and so if I go to this URL by the way
if I go to this URL
it gives me the directions to the toilet
which is like
really weird actually because
this is like wrong on both counts what
is like we want the criticize in my API
string that I didn't do well you're in
driving direction okay well yeah yeah
but um
we need to find the latitude
okay
but for some reason that was like
messed up okay um
I want to run it again
oh maybe I just like yeah maybe I just
like gave it the wrong
uh
that's what I'll do I'll make these uh
I'm gonna make these const uh
might break something but basically
um here now on the this thing
so now the root endpoint will default to
72 Hamilton for our testing purposes
okay so now we're gonna run all of this
on this okay now if I just go to
this should have the little form and
submits
okay
was that the jet huh
maybe okay cool so all right so but for
some reason the closest bathroom it
thinks is here which is definitely wrong
so we need to might just not have it in
the
no no no no because we have definitely
seen well can we go back to the table
well you have it send it 500 meters
that's more than 500 meters though no I
I did uh I did a radius of
5 000. well the thing is how yeah crazy
I can't 400 meters a quarter mile
um oh okay how uh
how does it return the top ten is that
top 10 by look by distance or just any
random 10 in 5000 meters that's probably
why good question yeah so wait so let's
do this
um kill that
and make it smaller than 5000 too just
make it like 500.
okay I'll make it a thousand
because one thing is that there's
different there's like I'm only looking
for nodes but there's also like uh
oh no this is a note hold on can we look
at these URLs for a second yeah they all
look the same
yeah it's just no they don't that long
is different but it's only the way it's
only a destination that's different well
right I was looking at the destination
that longs but they looked even they
looked really similar but look at like
the last digit yeah
Let's uh recreery
okay it's one unit oh this is right okay
good job man that that's exactly right
because this I I recognize that as the
the corner that's uh
yes this thing
but why did it okay dude he recognizes
of the [__] Corner bathroom from last
night
yeah
I found like a bathroom that was claimed
to be open or like some [__] yeah we try
to go and see what was up it was great
but something is weird why is it why is
it
oh oh okay it's recommended thing is
that we go to this bus stop and then
take it okay that's just right no no but
it just defaults like the URLs
regenerate walk yeah have a default to
walk maybe if that's possible should we
default to walk yeah can you can you
look at the docks for I mean for now I'm
down today it's easy to see make it
default to a particular direction yeah
but it's going to show uh uh Cohen how
to travel mode equals walking okay right
yeah so so basically we're gonna add
what's called another query parameter so
here we have this function that
generates the URL URLs so here I'm just
gonna generate another one I'm gonna put
travel mode he goes walking honestly I
feel like dude how do they know that
co-pilot bro it says if no Travelers
dude you get it for free you definitely
got to get it it says if no travel mode
specified Google Maps is going to show
you like yeah it's recommended yeah
which I feel like is probably good this
whole thing to me in more detail should
I just look at it later no no we
yeah dude wait hold on hold on
we're gonna have to come we're at the
company all hands this guy's been
slacking for oh my God yeah
I'll call one more time all right um so
yeah let's walk through this thing we're
calling Elon an artist right he should
make our logo yeah yeah
well right now we're debating between
him and Julius
for what makes him look yeah but um
we're worried because it's really
what
yeah
Julie's failed the drug test
oh for the confidence yeah for free to
pay
so it's a little awkward but I'm sure we
can square that away we might have to uh
did you see I was um
yeah we're we're just adding we're just
adding we're just spamming the [__] out
of you everyone I'll look at them later
on they're so great I didn't have any
Wi-Fi Elon Haskell please let us know
when you're planning to take PTO it is
company policy if you give it two weeks
notice but we understand that can't
happen just try to get into workday so
it's on payroll's records that's Michael
distinguishers
this won't impact any ml initiative you
started as an orthogonal to the
Department's efforts
back what
you got to merge everything
is that how it works do we all have to
approve it
no we could set up things where you
where people need approvals because
there's oh there's one that you sent as
I saw oh that's already
are there more discussions on here yeah
all hands what was the good first issue
that you went there oh that was probably
a meme yeah that's what I thought
but I don't know why it didn't get the
right one it it should be getting this
node this is the one that I should be
recommending because I think it's
supposed to be closest
um
let's figure out why
bye
wait this one does look like it
that's weird wait that's really weird
this
this oh I think I maybe have messed up
the URLs that's probably what I did
this is probably the one that goes to
yeah okay I see okay yeah all right so I
messed that up let's figure that out
so this because these pairs are unsorted
blarg okay
so wait so let's just sort the
so what did we test for in our drug test
just about everything
wait wait says for heroin
okay I think I fixed it no Fred
it's unclear if if he was planning to go
skiing or if he woke up at like 4 am I
was like I'm going skiing
like it felt I don't know I feel like I
would have known if you went skiing but
[__] it up again there's no way that
that is do you think that's closer than
unbelievable me
boy is this sorting my distance yeah
hey
that's 0.7 miles that is 0.8 miles oh
but you know what oh that's it's not by
this distance it's by it's by have our
sign distance
what do we do I mean that's fine
like like I don't know why they even
suggested that walking where you can
walk in a more like straightforward path
should we just direct everyone here
yeah then the anti-semite we could put
all the temples
yeah there's an anti-semi filter if you
just want to pee here
do you remember there's a thing in
Massachusetts where someone like posted
a map of all of the like Jewish centers
yeah
Jesus Christ complaining it's like
you're just gonna use this to shoot the
Jews that's the city doesn't disappoint
Jesus Christ really to do that I
remember my mom emailed it to me and she
was like be careful
um
okay
this is a website that allows you to
like play around with queries by the way
for the overpass thing yeah so I mean
because what we do internally is we use
the overpass API we post to this website
but it allows you to to just like see
what it looks like yeah and maybe so
that's a Json that's returning yeah I'm
sure Google has a distance function you
know
it's like you give it you give it an
origin and a distance and you give it An
Origin lat long and a destination that
long and it computes like the the street
the Manhattan distance you know
distance Matrix API
open source routing okay so it seems
like this does exist in osm
wait is that the right distance
the current version of the
wow dude 5K Stars what is this dude you
hit that star button like too quick
like I barely saw it
routing machine that's [__] rad man
I know but this guy's in the tough thing
now big oh dude that thing is sick we
should make a tufting robot I'm sorry it
was really fun there's like this place
in uh
Austin yeah
all right
wow crazy dude you just curl this [__]
you don't even need a key no way dude
what does that mean hold on
all right let's try that do you know who
that is upstairs
I don't know I'm working on this bit
we've been workshopping this bit all
right yeah
[__] all right I'm glad I vetted it okay
so we could do this we could just async
wait let's see if they have a walking
API
this is pretty amazing dude what is this
I mean this is or something o-s-o-s-rn
but what was that different than the
overpass no no so this API is how you
get like distance
distances
from osm well I I don't actually know I
don't know
but it seems like
it's
um better it could be better than I have
our sign distance
I don't know what its relationship to
open street maps is at all but I want to
try it so hold on I'm gonna
put this curl command here
is this osm data structure or graph what
is it uh you should look at the data
model
don't look at that one here
this is so the so it starts the base
yeah this is the page to look at
but nodes are the the main thing that
I'm I there so okay so if we go to
toilets
if we go to toilets and you look at this
uh there's
uh ways which I think are like roads
paths or something and this has like a
hundred thousand toilets
um
and nodes have
uh about 300 000. so I'm only doing
nodes right now but at some point if
you're driving and you're like doing a
long drive and you want to know you'd
probably want also ways but right now I
don't know the query language well
enough to add that in and it's not
really a priority at the moment for me
but we will have to do it
um
but let's just see if this thing is more
accurate because I think we both agree
that like uh this is
that
where's our page
if we're
let me just make this at the end
table okay so between these two like if
we're here
would you walk in there or would you
walk there I'd probably walk there
maybe not though I don't know I mean it
depends but I mean we still don't have
any of the recommendation based on
whether or not we think this is open or
yeah like does that uh does osm have
like hours of operation yes yes so here
are some elements so wait I'll I'll
actually just do this
um
yeah
so I'm just gonna
um
expected okay so I make the query okay
okay blah blah blah oh there's only one
that it got why did it only get one
oh wait oh it's because let me just do
something stupid
because we were using the uh the old
thing
okay here we go now we have the two so
um so here are the elements that were
returned and so these are basically the
nodes
um
okay so the first node all it has and
this is the one that's here all it has
is that it has a toilet but now the one
in Central Square says yes
it doesn't have a fee it's a flush
toilet it's unisex and it is a
wheelchair accessible
so this is going to kind of information
and if you go to uh is that
is that all the information about the
bathroom but there's other information
too I have like hours and stuff
let's check so what I do is I go to
openstreetmap says node slash this
and this will give me all of the
information and you can click download
XML and it'll give you so it turns out
that that's actually
uh
yeah so you're right so there is a
little bit of more information there
um for example the time stamp the user
that submitted this but not that much
but no but I mean for example
this one may have more I mean we could
yeah we could use like this to get all
the places with bathrooms and then use
the Google Maps API to get hours and
stuff like that because we're gonna need
hours well this does have ours so for
example
I'm not sure why it didn't show up
um
because I know that well actually so my
query is really primitive but if we just
go to open toilet
map
um so one thing that I was describing is
that this the way that map complete
works
is that they have basically a
specification of like a bunch of
different queries and these are all just
under the hood queries so I uh if I go
to this and then I go to
uh complete just like the visualization
thing for Rosa pretty pretty much
um but I want to see
okay yeah so it's not this one it's uh
okay it's called tag info projects okay
so this thing called tag info which
basically is like a tag info
dot openstreamap.org this basically
gives us statistics about a whole bunch
of different projects like what we're
doing and and what tags and nodes they
have so if I look at the toilet
uh there's this and basically
this is like a project
uh which specifies and I'll just show
you it's just a Json file that says okay
tags amenity toilet uh image map alert
like it's including all of these things
in it and I don't really know how this
is written but the point is that like
not open Toilet map gets way more
toilets than like when we did our query
we didn't get this at all even though uh
if if we were to look at a toilet at
Phoenix Landing
this node
doesn't have
it has toilets access customer so we
didn't our query when we just did this
really primitive uh amenity equals
toilets uh this is amenity equals Pub
but we actually need this one toilets
equals yes so there's a collection of of
things that we need to look for and
that's basically this so we need to
actually use this to do our queries
um
and I haven't figured out how to use a
tag info project as the basis of a query
but that is effectively we also just do
like a menu equals toilet or a toilet
equals yes and try to figure out just
like well all the combinations well
that's effectively what this guy did
right yeah but there can't be that many
well there's so there's 32 keys and 48
tags in their project which I don't
exactly understand the distinction but
what does that mean so the tags I
imagine are like tags like amenity
equals toilets keys are meaning you're
filtering based on the key
and not just whether or not the tag
exists I think but I don't actually I
don't really know what that means
that mean
um what does that have like I mean that
has the uh
so this doesn't even have like Place ID
very funny well no so this is the tag
info project this is so fun so if I look
up so there are many projects using osm
tags in some way editors routers Maps
data extraction tools tag info can get
some information from those projects
about their use
um and so you have like a project that
allows you to specify this
all the things that your project needs
yeah
um which basically I think just lowers
to a query but I don't exactly know how
this all works but the point is we uh
we're missing a lot right we're missing
pretty much everything that's not public
toilets yeah
but still pretty useful but not like
that useful
so that's the next thing
uh and if you want to look at overpass
ql
and there's actually a transpiler of
python to overpass ql but I I didn't it
looked like it wasn't the very popular
um but anyways this is like this huge
long thing about how you can I mean it's
like a full programming it's just really
uh
extensive
the overpass thing yeah this overpass
query language
oh yeah so this is a union statement so
let's just try to uh to add something to
this so what we're going to do is we're
going to add a parenthesis here
and toilet equals yes yeah
um
and we're gonna have to do this
uh yeah yeah you're right
okay and we want to do
um
what was it
it's uh
toilets equals yes yeah
all right so let's try that
we're gonna see if we get any more hits
and let me make a little on that to do
try using this forward distance
okay so now we can go back to our API
here right where is
it I don't know
refresh this
what did I do wrong
okay so I didn't specify that's
wait what happened
oh I deleted everything
oops okay
um
wait no no but I still didn't write this
correctly
let's go back to too many [__] tabs
open
where is the query language
okay
oh wait okay
that should work oh I think I just
forgot a semicolon
the [__]
cool
um oh we got more nice so wait let's see
what this is
oh cool all right
so this is uh like tuscanini's or
something yeah
okay so yeah so that's just an example
of how we can start to use this query
language which is
but so there's a lot of other
things that we could do but yeah so you
can have opening hours and we can filter
based on is open basically
Mario's like
you're handicapped bro
for Michael we have to only find
wheelchair
accessible that do you lock me in that
that's really annoying
we should also dig into how mapcomplete
does this uh
like basically I wanna I wanna figure
out how to use the overpass API to
contribute data to post edits
programmatically like they recommend
that you don't do this they say uh is
that what is that what we want to do
like for our crowd's horsing part are we
just gonna update
open street maps like database or are we
going to have our own yeah we were
talking about this yesterday and I think
that to start basically we just want to
forward a bunch of data through so that
we don't have to maintain a back end or
a database at all and just uh
um feed all the suggestions through to
openstreetmap okay I feel like
eventually you might want to uh yeah
well all the Social Media stuff will
lead to yeah but the cool thing is that
opens we're going to use we're not going
to have our own accounts or
for the most part we're just going to
use openstreetmap accounts and
everybody's profile is just going to be
their openstreetmap account because like
why should we maintain our own user
database when there's already
a robust user database implemented
um
like we can store additional information
about users that happen to use free to P
but fundamentally the account is going
to be like they're like you their
display name is going to be tied to
their open street map account
dude 10 million people have been up in
the street map account
that's like not that many people
it's a lot of people do that's way more
people than we're gonna get like
trying to do it ourselves I think
yeah but I mean we'll have to like
prompt people to make an account though
if they don't have an account
yeah but but they're going to be making
that through
open street map should we just like open
up the sign up link for them there and
then the great thing though is that that
sign up thing allows you to just use
your Google account so it's just like a
one tab yeah right yeah so it's not like
you have to do the whole thing yeah all
right that's good
um
you could have diary posts been paying a
lot of Chipotle
it's incredible
still peeing at Chipotle
the exclamation point really amazing
oh no way do they have like a whole like
markdown
you're gonna crammed down
it looks like a miniature markdown right
it's too funny wait they did it they did
a subset of markdown yeah like four
commands um
that's incredible
let's do the preview nice
okay uh
so yeah so what should we do now
um
what do you think's worth doing
um I mean I kind of want because yeah I
feel like for for me to start on the
model I'm gonna really have to know how
this thing works because I'm gonna have
to be like getting data uh yes so I kind
of want to know how this works okay yeah
I mean fundamentally let's just let's
just refactor some of this the main
thing that you're going to be probably
doing is uh
is the following so let me just say uh
like basic uh overpass uh
query yeah I want to see how you set up
the thing that you view in your browser
though I don't really understand that
yeah so that's all so yeah good good
question so
the way that that works is
um with these this at get macro so this
specifies okay this path is that macro
it's through oxygen right yeah
um is get is going to be routed so when
I go to go to something where
I provide two things like one after
another then it's going to call this
function
okay show me an example where he's so so
for example when I go to
this see I'm so this is like the base
URL but these are the the arguments to
this function
right
so so in here this function is going to
be given string versions so these are
strings currently uh and then I parse
them to float and then I do all the
interesting stuff with them okay I've
never seen that Syntax for a function
before but that's just from there oh
without a name yeah yeah you can you can
do
it I think that still works let's see
so this is a local server yeah can you
so what
so you're giving it like some Port that
you're in your computer
Mike knows how this works more I I don't
honestly know what like when you press
when you run that serve function what
does that do
start the web server with your own
custom request Handler
so I so I guess these gets like mutate
some Global State about where oxygen
looks for its endpoints
okay and so that's your so the default
host and thing it would go back to serve
yeah
so that's right exactly so it defaults
exactly and then when you go back to
your browser
that's what you put in yeah okay and
okay and what's really cool though is
oxygen is super sick because like uh uh
it automatically generates what's called
a uh an open there's this thing called
open API which is basically a
specification of these let's see what
does Wikipedia say about this
it's a specification from machine
readable interface definition for
describing restful web services so this
is like this amazing thing where it
gives us all of the end points and so
and you can like try it out so I can
just do one one and it'll execute it and
so that's cool it's really nice to be
able to learn
um I don't know why it aired column Name
ID not found in the data frame
interesting okay so apparently at the LA
okay so we need to do some error
checking
um but effectively uh it's because the
latitude one one which is probably in
Antarctica or something weird uh it
doesn't have an idea it doesn't doesn't
have any bathrooms yeah yeah like
there's no bathrooms within a thousand
meters so basically it was an empty data
frame we were trying to yeah
right so like so like what we could do
is is empty yes
uh
uh no toilet yeah so we can do that so
let's see what happens if I do if I add
this error handling
okay so now what we're going to do is
we're going to execute this again
it's going to say error no toilets found
which I think this is not actually sick
that it automatically generates that for
you dude yeah
yeah oxygen is really really nice
um but you're probably not actually
going to be using this front-end web
server to like get the data yeah well
you're gonna be doing no definitely
definitely I'm just saying like this is
a little bit too heavy-handed to have to
go through the get because you could
just make calls like we do in the body
of it so for example
um
let's just let's just do let's do this
in order to show you
so uh
okay so this is basically all you need
to make a query is you post
URL
and I'm going to change it right now but
uh
you posted this URL with this query
string and then you get back stuff so
I'm just going to close this let's make
this what does post mean
what does post mean I don't know what
post means
pose method is used to send data to a
server by API whereas get uh I don't
think you're sending data really
okay
um so we're sending that to like this
overpass
server thing yeah and we're sending this
query and then it handles that query
it's a it like runs the compute to like
return a bunch of nodes to us and then
that's what response is and then you're
reading so this is an API here so let's
just run this stuff
okay
Okay cool so you can see here
response
type of response it's an it's an HTTP
you can do lots of stuff you can see the
status so 200 means it was it was good
there's a lot of HTTP codes you can just
look up what hdb codes mean but so then
if I go to response.body this is what
the server actually returned and it's
just bytes but so I read it into Json
and then now I have Json and the nodes
the values are these elements remember
when we looked at
um
this thing
so that's what that that means so if I
do J dot elements I get back all these
nodes and all their info and I don't
know if it's all their info because I
didn't
when we went to the thing on
openstreetmap it actually returned which
user uploaded that data but and they're
also like hours and stuff too or some of
them but yeah let's see if we can find
um
let's see if we can find one that has
hours on it I think Cafe Nero
toilet McDonald's
so
okay for some reason okay McDonald's
we didn't get in our query for some
reason so apparently toilets equals yes
oh wait supposedly we should have that
let me just convert it to a data frame
so I can see actually oh wait hold on we
should also probably add name name into
the data frame but for now I'm that's
just data wrangling so I'm not going to
handle that
but why didn't McDonald's shop okay Cafe
Nero are you still oh Cafe Nero has
opening it caffeine has open hours and
there's actually a
so there actually is uh I guess
specification for open hours grammar for
opening hours values which is annoying
I'm sure that we can find code online
that just like does this so that we
don't have to write this thing ourselves
because people probably implemented this
a thousand times before but yeah this is
the syntax which is really complicated
so like there's a function that parses
that and returns like a simpler which
allows us to do a Boolean is open
basically because we want to fill yes
sir but yeah exactly
by the way Mike contributed this
yeah that's me
I've told some friends about this and
they've all been like oh I have some
codes damn we should start to uh okay so
yeah so that's actually good can we open
up paris's do we have any codes that we
know or write still I mean I have
paraces okay so we need to so uh osm API
we want to Pro now we want to do a
programmatic edit we want to be able to
submit uh a change
and the thing is they they recommend
that you don't do this they say don't do
this but I don't care
um
why don't we
like why don't we create our own
database that
is kind of linked to this where
we have like some CSV file that's our
running list of places that have
bathrooms and their code and then when
you get a place like through osm you can
then search through the CSV to see if
it's there and fetch the code wait
instead of like like instead of adding
it directly to like osm's database we
have our own but we store like the same
ID that osm has for the node yeah so we
can go just go back and forth because
then we won't have to deal with
posting to there yeah well
I mean
I'm fine to do that for now but it is
like the whole point is that we Upstream
all the data so that we basically get
rid of the need to maintain much at all
and plus I mean like the whole
philosophy of openstreetmap is that like
you don't fragment the database like
everything happens at one place but I I
hear you and like I'm totally fine with
that for the family like we just keep it
ourselves
um uh use your own tags osm so there's
also this thing any tags you like that's
what it's called so you're allowed to
invent tags
um so we're allowed to come up so for
instance if you go to uh
this
um
interestingly
sorry this doesn't okay wait actually
Cafe Nero has a code so let's
um
because the other thing with keeping our
own like it might not be in the spirit
of open street map but that's that would
be like what sets ours apart is that we
have that information and then people
would have to use our thing yeah
I I hear I hear you but that's like
pretty antithetical yeah free to pee
like it's not free to pee anymore oh
it's pretty if you use our thing yeah
right okay
free to pee after pain
after watching as we have on her yeah
right it's just like 75 ads and like
when you try to click something we like
show an ad on top of it right before you
click it so you have to trick people
will be rich
free to be but you make us rich in the
process okay so for example though if we
go to this node like
um
so toilet's description this is the tag
that Michael used to put in the code
but presumably and if we go to the
specification for toilets so that tag
already exists are you so no so toilet's
description would like uh when he
clicked on this there was these
questions and it just filled in for one
of them
this
so like it asked him this question about
the description and he put that in and
so
um
but
uh code specifically toilets code is not
one but I I think that we could probably
just use come up with the tag system
ourselves that we just use and then at
after a certain point in time when we
have enough users we actually propose to
make them official tags
and then people just
crystallize around that
um
for example here on Maple nessim
endangered Siberian flying Squad
oh my gosh that's super funny endangered
nasty goes with some beer and flying
squirrel
people really be adding [__] like this
dude
nice
so nice and Niche
yeah right if you're unsure how to model
it work yeah okay
what not to map
should relate to some geographical
property or would you yeah so adding the
location
yeah but tagging many years with the
perceived signal levels as well okay
that's interesting yeah that makes sense
to me though
limitations on mapping private
information oh
live
individual ownership of buildings not a
phone book
do not map contact data of individuals
what does that mean like phone numbers
and stuff
do not map the personal Behavior
dude dude did you see that you can't
what you can opt in though like I want
like a poop Trail for this user I want
to see his poop Trail for the day it's
kind of creepy
that's okay that's not a game break I
don't think that but that stuff will
have to have our own database yeah yeah
we just need to get this is the right
way to go for sure what do you mean I'm
not I'm not questioning this I'm just I
do think we should keep our own database
of bathroom code so yeah
it's on a GitHub reposition we can
always like later put it in
do you have another swag man
but I don't know that might like they
might I know I would like to put
bathroom like that could be considered
like a private no I I I agree I agree I
agree for now we're not gonna we're just
gonna maintain everything ourselves but
uh at some point we like I want to I
want to be involved in the osm community
enough to like
be sure that it's okay or it's not okay
and just get people's take on it because
no I like I I think that this language
is actually pretty
it's not clear whether or not bathroom
codes are okay yeah I agree
um if it is okay we should probably put
it in but yeah if not right yeah we
don't want to get shut down too quickly
um
so yeah okay
so so the the first concrete step that
we need to get a good query is to be
able to use basically to parse the where
the [__] is it this thing
so
we actually want to use the query that
this tag info project
represents yeah
does it say what queer they use or not
yeah I think they do write tags and then
there's probably a keys so we just put
all
the parts let me just save this
and then read it in
um
uh
so we could basically use
yeah okay fine so
um
uh
oh yeah okay fine uh
if it doesn't have the key
who doesn't have the value fine but
let's just do this for now
ah it's too many
but presumably we need to okay
um
uh and it's going to be take it's going
to take a tag
thingy I don't that's not really good
let's call Tag JT that
TSA with JT the tags and then we do J
tag is equal to
cat ts1
Okay so
um oh wait can I just do
uh this one doesn't have a yeah okay so
tag two
get tagged two
okay so we can oh I guess we did that's
just a pass through but basically we
need to figure out how to generate this
thing yeah and I think
do you think that uh okay well okay so
you're trying to get all the keys and
values and you just and I'm just going
to generate a bunch of strings here yeah
but you're saying some of them don't
have values so yeah so like for instance
toilets description
oh basically this project is saying if
it like I'm searching for if this thing
has a toilets description at all I don't
care what the value is but then for for
uh for tag I actually want to check that
amenity is equal to toilets yeah so as a
guy what no no no
excited
um
how do we actually we need to look at
the uh
ql
and see
how do you just check if it has a
if it just has something at all
it's kind of an interesting algebra to
this query language
um
but what if we just try
samples
it's probably just like that right but
what happens if there's no thing here
yeah do you think I could just let's try
that let's just say
but we need to find one that actually
has this
um
uh we need to find it we need a
maybe we could just do it with
toilets equals yes well we know one has
a description right the one that Michael
out of the description
oh yeah great good point you're welcome
thanks Mike thanks
thank you
thank you America
nice
try to run npm cash
you're working on your website you're
probably a dog or something that you
wanted yeah
a little refresh it's like getting a
haircut what do you want to do I want to
work on the I want to do some kernel
development
like like work on like
so they do like systems programming
like what type of companies do that any
like if I worked at like mongodb like a
database company essentially and I
already work at a database company but I
don't work on the database there yeah
it's pretty uh
thanks man Brian I mean I really like to
work at Apple like they have a compiler
group and stuff
so I'm gonna try to do that too
so okay Julia compilers yeah I don't
know like yeah
I wanna work in a big company
yeah I want to do something big you know
so and and honors saying that's like
not doing products is a good thing I
totally agree with him I think you do
need to do leak code in order to get
past those big Tech interviews though so
yeah
anyway
you need what you need the leeco to get
over the big Tech interviews oh yeah
uh what a shelf one other option is uh
Mike was looking at or he set up an AWS
thing
so we were thinking maybe we can just
download and store an entire planet.osm
file and then you can just
like query the entire planet
um and generate the data set that way
it's it's more annoying because then you
can't just use local
you can't store 1.7 terabytes locally
how much money would that be well we
need to check but storage is usually
relatively cheap actually I mean if
we're only going to do it for a couple
months just to get the database like
and like play around with that
I would expect it to not be so expensive
the compute would probably be the more
expensive port
but you can probably like query buckets
um
relatively easily
um okay yeah so let's try the the other
query
beautiful yeah that is so funny Mike
yeah I got the description yeah so now I
only got that one yeah I just got one
dude it's like in a movie like when the
dog saves like
you know what I'm talking about it's
like fine oh you did it
it doesn't do [__] yeah all right he
didn't give me right access to the
terminal oh yeah I got you
uh yeah I got you
um
I'm debating no okay
what are you doing whether or not to
give him Red X is my terminal oh jeez
man dude remove RF slash huh
foreign
mm-hmm
nice
uh okay wait what are you trying to do
okay so write the so do you want to
write the function that uh generates
these lines basically we're gonna take
the like
uh yeah I can do that so so basically if
it has a key and a value then you
generate this key equals value string
otherwise you just create you just put
key in there yeah okay cool that should
be relatively straightforward do you
want to do that now or should we
I mean you get food I'm not that hungry
I'm not that hungry too but can we leave
in like 30 minutes maybe or 10 20 or 10
yeah sure yeah I just want to get out of
here I'm a little
I think Cabin Fever
yeah no
nice also our thing got accepted to
Julia Khan yeah
I saw some other things so you know
miles Cramer yeah of course symbolic
progression yeah yeah I met him last
year his thing was and there's also a
new this thing somehow conformal
prediction I don't know if you know what
that is I don't know it's a way to do
like uncertainty quantification for ammo
oh cool
maybe we can use that for this honestly
okay
the guy who
do you know like what the dynamic Road
decomposition yeah of course dude so you
know have you ever heard of physics
informed DMD hi DMD no so it's more
recent the guy who like did that and has
two papers on it just died last week oh
wow it's 29. oh my God I I used to play
squash with him that's damn dude that's
super awesome that's really horrible
yeah
so that's what I mean we use that in the
thing that I submitted oh cool yeah
um
okay wait so it's TS
okay so all we need to do is do
um
yeah so if has key this else and okay
basically we need to generate so should
we just get a like a vector of those
strings I'm just gonna return
um
that's cat
can't lie there
um and then
um unfortunately I probably have to
escape these stupid things
uh
okay that's good
um
else
it's just gonna be this
okay so this is the whole function
um so we're just going to do node
string Dot
TS okay then
um
we just need to uh well we might as well
just generate the whole thing
um or actually no yeah here's what I'll
do I'll do uh what is this triple quote
thing it's like a raw string
it sounds like the opposite you can
interpolate it
oh you can't you can only interpolate
you're gonna triple it into it
um
we're on my [__]
man
oh man okay cool that's fun
uh
okay
so here
we're just gonna see what's going on
so I'm Gonna Bake the query this
oh I didn't put this oh oh I [__] it
up because I didn't do this
uh I didn't do this right yeah I need
the brackets
in the semicolon yeah in the semicolon
thanks
Okay cool so let's just run that again
copy this
here
and just like that
cool
see how many we get
um it's taking a lot longer which kind
of makes sense but it's also like
a little bit more
uh
whoa
it's a lot of bathrooms too I feel like
we messed something up I feel like this
isn't all right
oh because this is a union though like
oh yeah so it repeats them oh you think
it repeats
wait hold on okay wait map oh wait so
let's check a bit
um
uh Map X to x dot ID
s
um
all you need
yeah so the the unique things but like
like in this example it could have a
changing table and not a bathroom
yeah but dude there's not that was 28
000 right dude I I just checked the IDS
are unique though I know but do you
really think there are 28 000 places
within a thousand meters
yeah that's a that's a radius of like
three quarters of a mile there's no way
you think so that's like from you think
there are 28 000 places between like us
and Harvard less than Harvard Square
like
I mean the IDS are unique so
I do
I mean the thing is Think Like if you
look at open plate look
open street map like their number of
places like all of these are like all of
these little things are nodes like
there's so like there's park bench is a
node
I think we're getting that part finished
yeah I do
and this trash can and that trash can
and this trash can in that case maybe
yeah but so yeah so we don't want to do
like so this query is flawed
I don't know how we
I don't know how this thing
where is that stupid thing dude I'm not
good at figma
yeah I've never used figma it's really
all this stuff is so hard and I don't
know if it's even necessary it's like a
mocking website
this is this is cat
I gotta change this
maybe we could just come up with like
our own query that doesn't do this but
at least says like a relatively
yeah that's similar yeah like maybe just
like uh
toilets equals yes
I mean because this is this is probably
literally getting everything because
yeah I agree yeah it has pretty much
everything in it like
like uh
like let's try this
let's try this we're gonna make another
query
um
that's just this
uh hold on
that just that and to see how many we
got yeah
yeah
so we got I mean that's at least
reassuring though for me
because because look at this we have
well I don't know if that would be
actually just actually no
like a yes and no yeah but I don't think
that that necessarily would get
everything though because you're not you
just still don't necessarily have access
but but then that one says access equals
key what does that mean like does that
just mean like you need a key to get in
oh
but yeah I agree that like anything with
a description like opening hours like we
we did get it pretty much everything
yeah
um
so let's just only take the things that
have toilet the word toilet
and maybe keep changing table too I
don't know that could be important for
pregnant people
for people babies
but get rid of like
uh
I mean we can like access sorry you you
can edit it I want to read it with the
query language to see because there is
like I mean it's a pretty Advanced like
you can type the results of something
into another
one
all right this one should only have
things related to
oh
dude this little island this sucks the
what
every time I like make a change it takes
me to a different place oh wait hold on
um
where was it
oh okay I don't know
I thought it was because
let's see I do that it takes me down
here you try again I didn't I missed it
give me this
that's really annoying
hmm
there are also a lot of repeats in this
too
wait don't move oh see that's no that's
what it is though
um
maybe if you just go to a different file
no no because you're following me if I
look watch what happens when I
yeah so wait but there is a
I forget I don't know why I can't see it
anymore but
oh you wrote a python file for this too
well that's yeah
um
but there is a way for me to stop
uh
focus on context for you I mean should
we populate like let's say we get
someone that has a bathroom but not
opening hours should we make the call to
Google Maps and get the opening hours or
no
you're saying if it doesn't have it in
openstreetmap yeah which it seems like
not many of these places had hours but
potentially because then it's like we're
basically paying
to improve the open street map database
which seems kind of not right to me
yeah
why can't I unfocus there used to be a
thing hold on I'm just gonna quit the
live stream and start it again because
for some reason I got messed up but we
could also like we could do that but
then only store the information in our
database
yeah but like just mirroring it seems
like
but we don't have to mirror the whole
thing we can just uh take the idea oh on
demand yeah
I don't know why it's we probably won't
do that because then there would be
repeats but
Like Only Store
for some reason I can't find there used
to be a button up here that said focused
participants but for some reason I can't
just disable this
extension real quick
okay
hmm
what you could do is
um
well let me send you the messenger link
then you share
okay
um
yes I closed Julia so let me just reopen
and then make it right right excess
agreed right
okay I think oh here we go okay so you
shouldn't be okay it showed up so we're
good
um you shouldn't be following me anymore
oh wait yeah see how it says fault click
on that pin that's green okay now your
game you should be fine
um but since uh Julia is like a fresh
session uh you'll probably have to like
there's basic overpass query
oh God
oh who's that oh it's Eli
yeah I think that's tip oh [__] all
right nice
I remember that guy
I know this guy come on wait who is this
Owen person you guys are talking about I
just see a guy from uchicago this guy
Owen Egan
dude look at my recents
that's disgusting that's disgusting dude
it's been so long I know I know
I don't know
I bet you guys wish I clicked on this
now huh
dude I love this guy dude Supreme you
went to Chicago
um he's like he's a good friends with
gunsberger of her friends
um he's like
he's he's kind of crazy but but he's
trying to make a lot of content
so I [__] with it
all right dude my dad loves Groundhog
Day
dude he [__] loves Groundhog Day
every year he loves and he loves the
movie Groundhog Day
it's a good movie
should I link it on his thing he doesn't
like when I post I run stuff let's check
out my dad's face this is weird really
okay this is strange all right yeah
you're right you're right well you know
Chicago law interesting I don't know you
know what makes it weird that we're
streaming it
well no not really I mean you're not
streaming it yeah if you were like
like when I do shift enter it doesn't
work uh no you don't have okay hold on
go to your extension oh you need to
click on manage
go ahead and scroll down scroll down
trust click Trust
okay now see how Julia showed up so you
should be good now and make sure you're
in the right environment let's see cool
all right
[Music]
oh it's probably because I had that
python file living version
okay so it opened up another one uh
interesting
see you it probably open you open the
wrong
um wait hold on wait for it to execute
it'll probably be in the Raw it'll
probably be like can't find uh
and also there's a couple of things that
I do that refer to just because I don't
have your version of Julia
well that's uh that'll be okay you'll
just have to re-resolve but see how the
project there's no manifest you need to
you need to activate that environment
and instantiate but it's okay that you
have different uh
but for some reason I don't know why it
didn't
um
it didn't use mine because I set mine to
read write but then somehow you didn't
get somehow you didn't get connected to
that
yeah I can try running it no I mean
shift enter is uh
yes
Okay cool so at least that's in the
right environment
right can I uh
show you something
so
okay
so I mean you should just run stuff in
here but um
yeah so let's just do this
activate this environment
now interesting
this thing is like dead
oh it might the return key kind of sucks
dude
interesting
I don't want to read that real quick
dude I'm hiring at a used car kid to
work for me this summer it's really nice
yeah new Chicago's paying
okay it's from Matt that guy
oh the mad guy yeah I love that guy
he's Miss paying for oh yeah you got a
copy and paste it's okay I don't know
about this
yeah I want this new query
I love John
about it what a guy
whoa whoa
all right so now we have 120.
cool what did you just got rid of all
the ones with toilet no I only kept
things that are related toilets yeah so
it's the top one or the bottom one uh
the top one right the the time yeah yeah
I'm just going to delete this one
cool
so wait let's uh let's uh
here's what I'm gonna do actually
um
we could write a function that uh
given a latitude longitude and a query
cool okay so so we could do this
um
and you think the best idea though is
for all the stuff that we generate for
now keep our own database and then once
we like talk to the osm people then yeah
like we have this information do you
want us to add it totally agree that
that makes the most sense to me so the
only problem here
is
we
uh we want to do this
um
then what I'm going to do is uh I mean
this is really really inefficient like
okay so then I'm gonna make that
function
just because you have to you have to
allocate this string every time you call
gen query which is like pretty cringe
uh but whatever
um so now
uh we don't pass it a query we say query
equals gen query lat long okay so now
um
uh yeah I gotta do this stupid thing
hold on let it go live okay
so be it okay
um
okay so then but but cool
[Music]
look at the pairs distance oh
um
oh yeah we have to we should start to we
should start to refactor this and put
this into a uh
well I'll put this actually what I'll do
is I'm going to move this function to
the API file
then here
um well the overpass API JL just
contains all the functions like that is
API basically
right what yeah um we do using pass API
or something
you know if it's empty I'm just gonna
error okay uh
[Music]
uh okay
uh that's just a hacky way to get around
having to worry about it
um but then in in our API function now
what we can do is get rid of all of this
DF is equal to
2df
then we should be able to just Okay cool
so now I've simplified the get request
and we've refactored out 2df so now in
here we can and I'm gonna move this
thing
to this so we're just going to put all
of our functions in this API thing I
mean we'll soon we'll put in modules and
make it nice but I'm going to call 2df
queer uh lat long
um
and then we should just skip show us a
data frame okay let's see what happened
oh yeah I didn't evaluate that uh this
thing
and actually we don't really want that
we only want that in the API but for now
it's okay to put it in there it Maps URI
is up here
actually let's do this
um
okay about that
one more time
oh wait uh
oh because I put
[__] idiot
uh so let me just let me just evaluate
all this
cool
all right uh but actually what we will
probably want to do is
yeah no that's actually fine because
this has all of the this is everything
and see the tags the tags are stored as
just Json so we can actually like
act on those like the dishes
wait this one's a house
hold on
oh wait we don't have DF wait a minute
I don't think that their house I think
it's a that's just another oh yeah
you're right
let's see what is this
oh yes
cool
so we have 120 bathrooms within a
thousand a thousand meters
or well potentially but 120 bathroom
related things yeah well but you also
have opening hours in here oh I kept
that just so we get oh oh yeah it's a
union oh yeah we need to remove that one
um
and then if you have toilet access then
you don't need toilets accessories yes
uh yeah or you could delete this one and
just only filter the yes ones but I'm
guessing the no is ones that have codes
though so just delete the so we should
just delete all these
yes
uh well we I mean we
yeah
we'll filter after yeah because we want
to know what these exactly right yeah
um
okay
that sounds good
dude we needed like chat gbt interface
to this or you can type in like find me
in your bathroom and they'll return like
the nearest bathroom is this you know if
you're pregnant the men's room has a
changing table or a baby that's actually
a really smart idea yeah I like that
it's not a crazy thing to to want to do
at all right like you give it five the
top five rows and you just say this like
this is what we know about this user
and this is what
you know like write a couple sentences
about relative like the attributes of
these toilets that are relevant to this
person and they suggest something like
when the person makes an account we can
have them say like do you have a little
kid do you are you a man or a woman
right
um are you handicapped
yeah
Okay cool so
um what do we want to do now
um
yeah okay we can commit this and I
foreign
but we don't need this anymore I'm gonna
delete this too this is just when I was
getting used to the query language
um map complete toilets uh that I'll add
this is this is probably worth having
so
um
make a useful toilet query in overpass
ql
uh add the tag info project for open
Toilet map
and polish that uh
rest API are you committing this to your
branch yeah so I'm not merging that the
problem is I mean soon we're gonna have
to start like
I want to change around the architecture
like this repo is really not useful at
all like the fact that it's like a it's
a rust project and then Julia is the sub
module I think I'm just gonna move free
to P like the Julia part into its own
repo and then we can just work on that
because that's the only stuff that
actually has useful and then we'll click
clean it up and add tests
um and then we can move from there but
we can do that soon
oh okay cool so uh
yeah nice all right so uh all right we
can stop this so I shouldn't merge this
uh
uh I mean we we could merge it yeah we
can merge it why not yeah merger
oh it didn't work because you changed
review and try the merge again let's try
again
okay now it works okay cool
cool
I mean but soon soon I'll have you start
like uh
um
learning test driven development where
basically all whenever we make a change
like
we uh
you have to add a test to make sure that
it works properly because right now
basically everything we're doing is not
getting tested at all yeah it's just a
bunch of scripts that do random [__] um
which is like fine for now but it's
getting the point that's like how I
always code but I thought that's not how
it's not no it's yeah yeah we're all
over the place
all right nice
maybe I should delete key.txt we don't
really need
it anymore
cool
we can actually delete this readme
doesn't make any sense
like for instance you see uh when you
when you go to this
you see this little yellow dot this
means that CI like
github's computers are running the tests
that we've set up for both the rust
package and the Julia package yeah but
interestingly right now the only test
that we actually have
uh are in
this
which is presumably empty so the only
thing that we test is that you can
actually do using on it and it doesn't
error yeah but that's nothing
but soon soon we'll start to migrate all
of this to like a good architecture
it's just not that much work at all it's
pretty negligible amount of work
um
yes I don't know how you how we want to
do the recommendation if we have like
120 nearby us
right as some simple logic that doesn't
this stupid [__] favor
it's the worm
and centipedes
that's cool though
it's an interesting math but it's not
useful
the math might be useful for other
things but no one will realize it
make it very plainly known I'd say like
at the front of the paper
you like you read worms but you know I
read
I don't know quantum physics and [__] I
read curing cancer
I'm actually going to exercise the Julia
module and make it some repo right now
see what's the difference between get
pull and get fetch
fetch
um
fetch all right so
think about like
uh
so they get like on your computer like
pick it like um program
it's not really connected to the
internet unless you want it to be yeah
so like and it's all like relative to
like like basically
um
all those like
there's like hidden git files
um within a folder that's how it like
maintains it's like information
um
so like basically
you need to tell git to like
get the latest changes from the repo
um to be aware of them
um but pulling them actually what it
does is it takes those latest changes
and it actually tries to merge it into
your branch
so fetch just makes git aware
of the changes but it doesn't actually
merge it
so yeah
that's kind of if you do man get fetch
or get fetch help
they'll talk about it
so fetch branches from one or more other
repositories to complete their histories
remote tracking branches are updated
so gitpole is like equivalent to get
get pulled
is get fetch Plus
so it's fetch end and then integrate
so more git runs get fetched with the
given parameters
and then it runs git merge
in case I'm gonna move all these
functions to the actual plane
let me see if this works I think I think
talk is built with oh that's mobile tick
tock
Target is an extra yes thank you
all right this is not
it's gonna be better than having a rust
package in there for no reason
you can delete this too
that stuff about uh
scraping Google Maps I'm deleting
the popular bathrooms
I mean we still might want to do
something similar though
like
if the place doesn't have hours okay
well the file still exists on the the
old repo so it's okay
um this API I'm gonna delete to
basic overpass query I'll keep listen
videos or anything useful in here
kind of it's not really useful this we
can delete
the code for pass API that's fine I'll
leave that in there but what we need to
do is make sure that we have
all these
make sure that they're all I think they
are but
no we're still not gonna have any tests
but I maybe I'll add the tester now
foreign
our table overpass
what is this one
I don't think we need that either
shouldn't delete all this except for the
yeah
cool
oh let's go what's up Tim Urban was on
Lexington podcast
uh Tim Urban has that cartoon wait but
why the blog yeah they're using a book
that's coming out tomorrow oh that's
cool
he's my favorite
favorite you guys would both like him
too I read a couple of them but not not
much oh check it out it's signed your
computer 100 240
240 right all right or something else it
wasn't that it was like two four all
right two two four yeah it says I got
two four one I think
I'm gonna start a blog I need you guys
to share all my tweets about it so like
people will follow me I got you yeah
I see you liking the chemical of the Day
stuff so dude everyone bro it's so hype
I love it
I I wanna
I have the repo chemical of the day up
on on GitHub and I want to do it so the
pub cam API has bio assays proteins
genes and a couple other ones and it
would be really easy for us to just
generate
uh
protein of the day by last day of the
day like random [__] like that and just
start to make cool stuff like that the
problem is I want to make it so it's
like more fun like
uh we should do that for papers like
synthetic bio archive paper they they
have they have followers that just do
RSS feed stuff like that but we could do
that I mean that's a fun project and it
only takes like a day
um but but people have done that for a
lot of yeah sub categories on archive
but I would still be down to do that
can you you guys uh
can I get some advice on this
mm-hmm
so I don't
um
so
this is giving me problems
the proportions are off so like I have
to maintain like the ratio like with the
height no matter the screen size
and kind of interesting because you can
see how it gets really thin which is the
effect on like a long screen like this
and like when when the screen's larger
it looks a little bit better but it
doesn't look great right and so I I
don't know like I was thinking like
maybe I should have a mobile version of
this or scrap it or like how would you
guys
could you see like doing this on a
mobile I don't think I could I would
almost like want a big red line or some
[__]
you know
can you just keep the size no matter the
screen size like uh the proportions yeah
like don't have a face on the screen so
I just have it based on like pixels
uh oh I see you cheers
um
based on pixels like always have the
line to be like
20 pixels wide
yeah I mean then you get in a situation
though where
you are a
uh
if you have high definition screens
I feel like let's say you're on a
website that has an image and you just
make your browser train smaller the
image doesn't change that
how's our
that's interesting
like for instance
if I go to like New York Times or
something and I'll like try to zoom out
you're saying
like this yeah that doesn't change size
yeah it just kind of gets cropped
I think I just need a mobile version of
the app of the website
um
okay
are you guys ready to go soon in like
five minutes okay
I just need to transfer this repo
all right so so I exercised uh now it's
just a Julia package it was just good
um
okay Alex the uh hold on I need my
two-factor
all right nice
okay so free to pee is a new home
what
it's now this repo is the real one
the other one is just
[__] terrible tree is all messed up
cool
I'm Gonna Bump the test though
oh wait
stop that
let's see if it's still [__] up okay
now that's fine
[__] won't happen here
everyone's canceled
weird
foreign
with this like two character change nice
job jackass [__] CI I was like
wondering why I kept getting canceled
and it was just you
yeah man oh look at oh okay whatever and
it's just fun though it's all good uh
continue it's our it's running the tests
so basically I I moved all of the
functionality of the package into the
module and then in runtest.jl I test
that we can at least get the data frame
and so that now every time someone
commits we at least know whether or not
they broke everything
laughs
um but so okay so I think we're good
it's unfortunate that because the old
repo has all the discussion posts on it
but it's fine
I mean most of that stuff is is
not even relevant anymore because
yeah he's about to Google Map stuff and
then it was about elon's vacation days
hmm
Oh wait we're gonna lose all that that's
good content no it's not it's not lost
it's just in an old repo now
whatever you say okay cool cool Ci's
past all right
so if you like go to the run test file
you can see test pass so
we're all good
Co less
if you ever talk to Ethan Abraham
anymore or not yeah not really not a lot
but every now and again
is he doing like CS stuff right now no
he he's doing like real estate uh
things
Finance though
oh
it's a list of coordinates that's
actually really cool
okay well we only need two
are you guys ready
I am actually I'm ready too perfect